XML-Based Offline Website Generation
Florence Armardeilh Information Technology and Electrical Engineering The University of Queensland St. Lucia QLD 4072, Australia florence@dstc.edu.au Peter Becker Distributed Systems Technology Centre The University of Queensland St. Lucia QLD 4072, Australia pbecker@dstc.edu.au Abstract
The approach and the tool XWeb , presented in this paper, shows one way to create websites from XML and other input files which can then be uploaded onto standard web-servers. The system uses an extra input file describing the structure of the content and the processes for creating the website. This information is also used to create the navigational elements in the output. Generating the content offline avoids having additional requirements on the server side such as CGI interfaces or Servlet engines. Keywords Document Management, XML, Hypermedia, Website Generation, Processing Model
1

1

Introduction

HTML was originally designed for writing documents with simple structures that are hyperlinked with other documents. This design was very successful and created what we know nowadays as the World Wide Web. Unfortunately HTML did not address two important issues when managing documents on a larger scale: there is no support for navigational structures outside the documents and content and layout information is highly intermixed. The screenshot in Fig. 1 shows a typical webpage, which contains navigational structure on the left hand side, using a nested layout for two levels of navigation, a number of layout elements plus information content. The information content in this example comes from two different sources: a description of the person and a BibTeXML2 file
1 http://xweb.sourceforge.net 2 http://bibtexml.sourceforge.net

Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

describing the publications of the whole workgroup, a single publication can appear on multiple pages if it has more than one author. Separating these different aspects of a site has been addressed in a number of ways, the most common approaches being the use of frames as an HTML extension and the use of scripting languages to create websites dynamically from databases or files on the server. Frames introduce a number of technical problems on the client side and often introduce accessibility issues for the visually impaired. They also do not provide a linkage between the document structure given and the navigation structure implemented as an HTML document in one of the frames. It is left to the website creator to ensure consistency between the two. Using scripting languages like PHP, ASP, JSP, Perl, Python or others on the server side introduces two issues. The first is that the server needs to be capable of running the scripting language used via some interface, usually the Common Gateway Interface (CGI). This raises the requirements on the server side, especially if the data itself is stored in a RDBMS instead of plain files ­ quite common with this approach. Another problem is the computational effort. Creating pages dynamically means running a script every time a page is requested, which increases the need for computational power on the server side significantly. The most common way to separate content and layout in the more modern HTML versions is the use of Cascading Style Sheets (CSS). CSS introduces layouting information that can be used to change the rendering of different HTML elements, either by tag names, by their position in the document or by additional information attached to them. CSS is a quite powerful way to define how elements are to be rendered in a browser, although it does not allow structural changes.

Figure 1: A page of a website presenting an academic working group.

2

XML
3

The World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) proposes XML as an approach to separate content and layout. XML itself offers a simple, tree-based data model called the Document Object Model (DOM), which is mapped into an Unicode-based text format. The eXtensible Stylesheet Language for Transformations (XSLT) can be used to transform XML documents into any other format, including standard HTML files and other web-based formats. The XML input can have a structure that reflects the content semantics, while all layout information is moved into XSLT programs. These XSLT programs can then be applied either on the client side (i.e. in a browser) or on the server side.

· the processing should be done offline, i.e. a result shall be created using a compiler-like approach, which can then be uploaded onto a standard webserver. The software architecture implemented uses a three-layer model to fulfil these design goals in a flexible way. The lowest layer is a Java-based processing engine, which collects all information needed for the creation of the navigation and calls different processors to do the document processing, the most important processor being an XSLT-processor. The second layer consists of XSLT programs, XML formats and CSS files to create websites with specific structures and designs. The XSLT programs can use parameters to allow flexible layouts, e.g. for deciding the position of the navigation on the pages. As a third layer, specific graphical frontends for creating those sites can be implemented. This layered approach allows for a high level of abstraction and therefore reuse in the lower layers and also accomodates different user types with different needs for control and comfort. The approach taken for defining a website in XWeb is using a separate file defining the structure of the content in an XML-based format. The toplevel element of the file is called website and has some attributes defining input and output locations as well as the target webspace. Below this, the two elements structure and layout define the content structure and the layout resp., the latter can be given multiple times to create different versions of the same site, e.g. for different browsers.

3

XWeb

The approach and the tool presented here try to fulfil the following goals, addressing some of the issues discussed above: · XML and XSLT shall be leveraged to separate content and layout; · CSS shall be used to define the rendering details; · the website navigation shall be generated from the content structure;
3 http://www.w3c.org

3.1

The Content Structure

The two core concepts in the structure definition are denoted by section and entry elements. A section defines a part of the website, which usually has a name attached to it used in the navigation rendering, and usually maps into subdirectories in the input and output. This information is attached as attributes on the section element. A directory is similar to a section, but will not create a navigation element. Entries define single pages in the website. They are also named for the rendering of the navigation, they need an input and an output filename and an identifier for the type of process that has to be executed to transform the input file into the output file. This process has to be defined in the layout section later on. If a single file should be omitted in the navigation, the file element can be used instead. The code in Fig. 2 defines a section of the website with three pages and two files which will not be shown in the navigation, in this case they are actually linked from the output file created by the entry above. Two different processes are used, attached to the files via their type definitions, the entries are all of type "XHTML" while the other two files are of type "copy". The processes for these file types are then defined in the layout sections. Compared to using directory structures for defining the website navigation and file extensions for the processes, this XML structure gives more control on the way files are processed and offers ways to separate the input and output structure, as well as the input and output file names and the names rendered in the navigation structures. Additional information can be added in the same way, in its current state XWeb allows adding types to the section (for rendering graphical buttons) and an additional title attribute can be given to distinguish between a long and a short name for an entry, usually used with banners across the pages.

input document before calling the XSLT processor. This process will be discussed in the next section. There are other options for processing documents and creating additional layout elements. For brevity they will be only listed here, please refer to the XWeb project site for details. · XSLT chains: Multiple XSLT stylesheets can be concatenated to separate different aspects of a transformation and thereby increase reuse. · Other process types: SVG images can be rendered into bitmap formats and external programs can be called. · Rendering buttons and banners: Images can be rendered from SVG content or using a simple XML format. Replacing text with names from the navigation allows creating buttons and banners.

4

Website Generation Process

3.2

Layout information

The layout sections of the XML website file define how the website should be generated from the given content. In the most simple case one layout section defines a process for each of the file types used in the structure part, as shown in Fig. 3. The layout definition given here tells XWeb that all files declared as having the type "copy" should just be copied from the input file name and location to the output file name and location. The files of type "XHTML" are supposed to be processed by an XSL process, using a specific stylesheet given as attribute of the xsl element. The second attribute navigationElement tells XWeb to insert the navigation information created from the structural information into the

After the input file has been parsed into a DOM document, the layout definitions are used to create processing objects and its structural part is traversed twice. During the first traversal, XWeb collects all information necessary for creating the navigation and adds it into the DOM. Most importantly this is the URL of the target location for each file. In addition to this, images for buttons and banners will be created and the information about their location added into the DOM. During the second traversal the documents are processed. For all entry and file elements the according processes are called. They can use the information in the DOM, including the parts calculated or generated during the first traversal. The most interesting sub-process is the xsl process. The XSLT processing can be done by calling a single stylesheet on the input file, with the output written to the output file given in the structural part, but there are two further options: XSLT chains and the addition of the navigation information. If multiple xsl tags are nested, XWeb will parse the file, pass it as input into the XSLT processor using the innermost stylesheet and then pass the output stream into an XSLT processor again, this time with the next outer stylesheet being used. The result of the outermost XSLT process is then written into the output file. In this way multiple transformations are applied without the need for temporary files, using the Simple API for XML (SAX) as streaming model. If one of these transformation steps needs access to the navigation information collected by XWeb before, the relevant section of the website DOM can be added into the XML stream. Whenever the attribute navigationElement is defined on the xsl element, XWeb will scan the input for this XSLT

<section name="Docu" sourceDir="documentation" targetDir="doc"> <entry name="DocMain" sourceFile="index.xhtml" targetFile="index.html" type="XHTML"/> <entry name="Installation" sourceFile="install.xhtml" targetFile="install.html" type="XHTML"/> <entry name="Tutorial" sourceFile="tutorial.xhtml" targetFile="tutorial.html" type="XHTML"/> <file sourceFile="xweb tutorial.zip" targetFile="xweb tutorial.zip" type="copy"/> <file sourceFile="xweb tutorial output.zip" targetFile="xweb tutorial output.zip" type="copy"/> </section>

Figure 2: A definition of a website section.
<layout> <documentStyle type="copy"> <copy/> </documentStyle> <documentStyle type="XHTML"> <xsl stylesheet="stylesheets/orangeLayout.xsl" navigationElement="html"/> </documentStyle> </layout>

Figure 3: A definition of a website layout. transformation for the first occurance of an element with the given name. If this is found, a copy of the structure part, including the collected additional information will be added as a child into the XML stream. In this way the XSLT stylesheets can get access to the information they need to create the navigation. How exactly this information is used, and how the look and feel of the website will be, is left up to the stylesheet author. In combination with the buttons and banners created by the SVG image renderer this approach is very flexible. processing modules, implemented by mapping named output streams of one process onto named input streams of one or more others. Another quite promising approach grounds web sites on a knowledge base structure using RDF6 as done in the Haystack project[2]. RDF offers the ability to interlink elements with a large number of different relations, which then can be used to create specific pages. This gives the option to create user-centric portal sites, although the classic treebased navigation approach gives a more common structure and might therefore be easier to use.

5

Further Research and Development

6

Acknowledgements

The processing model used in XWeb is in many ways limited. The streaming approach taken for the XSLT processing does not extend into other areas, for a number of purposes one would like an extended processing model, based on XML and binary streams. This should include forking (e.g. splitting XHTML with SVG and MathML islands into separate streams), merging (combining the information from different content sources, or adding the navigation information) and multiplexing (multiple streams of the same type at once, where the number depends on the input, not the process setup). Some Open Source projects and research groups have a stream based processing model, e.g. Lagoon4 [3] and Transmorpher5 [1]. Their models are more advanced than XWebs document-centric model, but they are not sophisticated enough to support the whole range of XML-based processing and the integration of the POSIX stream model. The processing model for this will be complex, but it should map into a reasonably easy programming system for
4 http://lagoon.sourceforge.net 5 http://transmorpher.inrialpes.fr/

XWeb itself is not much more than some glue between a set of Open Source libraries. Thanks to all people who worked on the main libraries used: Saxon (XSLT processing), Xerces (XML parsing), JDOM (Java-based DOM access) and Batik (SVG rendering). Thanks also to all people on similar projects who spend time discussing different approaches with the authors and all users giving feedback.

References
[1] J´ er^ ome Euzenat and Laurent Tardif. XML transformation flow processing. In Proceedings of the Extreme Markup Languages, 2001. [2] David Huynh, David Karger and Dennis Quan. Haystack: A platform for creating, organizing and visualizing information using rdf. Presented at the Semantic Web Workshop 2002. [3] Mikael St° aldal. Presenting XML documents on different media with stylesheets. Technical report, KTH, Stockholm, Sweden, 2000.
6 http://www.w3.org/

Generating and Comparing Models within an Ontology
Trent Apted, Judy Kay School of Information Technologies University of Sydney, Australia 2006 {tapted, judy}@it.usyd.edu.au

Abstract

An ontology is useful for providing a conceptually concise basis for developing and communicating knowledge. This paper discusses an application of an automatically constructed ontology of computer science and its use for comparison of models in the computer science domain. We present the architecture, algorithms and current results for MECUREO, a system which builds an extensive model of a computer science entity from limited information. The entity might be a document such as an email message, a course description document or a biography. It is intended to give a measure of the similarity of any two such models. We describe MECUREO's mechanism for constructing and representing models and its present performance in comparing models.

information retrieval, ontologies, Keywords acquisition, sharing and reuse of conceptual structures

1

Introduction

For instance, a computer science researcher describes their interests as knowledge representation, genetic programming and data mining. Another researcher describes their interests as neural networks, data marts and STRATEGY. We would like to be able to recognise that these two people are actually interested in quite similar things. Since they have chosen to express their interests with different terms, we can only recognise the similarity between the two self-descriptions if we can recognise the similarity of the terms used by each user. The term-level similarities can then be reconstructed to form a measure of similarity between the models of the two users themselves. One way to tackle this problem is to make use of knowledge about the relationships between terms to grow the set of terms supplied by each user. With this knowledge we can describe the users' interests as the set of terms they explicitly supply, plus the set of terms that we infer are similar. There are two elements in MECUREO's approach to matching people's interests: growing the set of user-supplied terms and the matching process for the enlarged sets of interests. In Section 2, we give a brief description of the way that we have constructed a computer science ontology. Then Section 3 outlines the process we use to grow ontology graphs from an initial small set of concepts. Section 4 describes the process used to match graphs and Section 5 describes its evaluation. We conclude by outlining related work in Section 6 and giving conclusions in Section 7.

A central use of ontologies is to facilitate the exchange of data. However, the rich semantic information contained in an ontology can be used for a variety of other roles in the learning domain. We will discuss the ability to automatically construct a model from limited, arbitrary textual input and then use this model with others to learn from the input in the context of a specific problem. Given a personal biography, a list of publications, or a person's self-description of interests, we would like to identify people who have similar interests. There are several ways that this information might be used. For example, the documents that are interesting to one person are more likely to be interesting for a person with similar interests. If we have access to the rated documents from one person, we can then use this information to make recommendations to other, similar people.
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

2 An Ontology for Computer Science
The ontology used is the result of the automatic construction process discussed in [1] applied to the Free On-Line Dictionary of Computing [2]. The process results in an ontology of computer science that is backed by a weighted digraph. Relationship weights are reals distributed in the interval (0, 1] indicating the "cost" of the relationship (i.e. a smaller weight indicates a stronger relationship). The relationships are also given a type that has conceptual meaning and associated direction. For example, laziness is modelled as a 'synonym' for lazy

Figure 1 -- Model expanded from the concepts knowledge representation, genetic programming and data mining with a depth of 0.8 and minimum peerage of 3. Bidirectional edges indicate synonym (or strong sibling) relationships, reversed arrowheads indicate antonym (or other opposing) relationships, directed edges indicate strict parent/child relationships and undirected edges indicate undetermined relationships (or weak siblings). Bold, normal, dashed and dotted line styles indicate progressively weaker relationships for all types. The image was constructed by inputting the above query into the web form for the MECUREO demonstration cgi accessed via http://www.ug.it.usyd.edu.au/~tapted/modelgrow.html.

3 Model Expansion
Model generation proceeds in three stages. First, key concepts are extracted from a data source. These are then matched (where possible) to concepts in the ontology. These concepts have a corresponding subgraph, which is then grown within the ontology to produce a rich model. Our work has concentrated on the second and third stages of the process. We start with a simple list of terms needed from the first stage.

3.1 Subgraph Growing
By indicating simply a subset of nodes in the ontology, it is possible to grow the corresponding subgraph a specified distance. For example given a set of concepts in the ontology, it is possible to construct a subgraph consisting of the nodes corresponding to these concepts. This graph may then be grown to include nodes nearby any of the existing nodes. The procedure takes the form of a query on the ontology for a model, given a set of concepts and a distance (or alternatively, a maximum output size) as input.

evaluation, declarative language is modelled as an 'antonym' for imperative language, TABLOG is modelled as a 'child' of both relational programming and functional programming, curried function has Haskell modelled as a 'parent' and other relations have 'sibling' or 'unknown' relationship types. Synonym and antonym relationships are bi-directional. Parent and child relationships are directed from the parent to the child (whether it is called a parent or child depends on the context of the location where the relationship was discovered), and sibling and unknown relationships are undirected. The particular ontology used contains 23,095 concepts and 57,550 directed relationships of which 55,038 are between distinct concepts. The queries used for generation and comparison traverse relationships in either direction, so there is an effective average of 4.77 distinct peers per node for the purposes of these queries. However, often a node has only a single relationship that is an explicit synonym with negligible weight such that the related nodes behave semantically as if they were a single node. More information about the ontology can be found in [1].

Figure 2 -- Model expanded from the concepts STRATEGY, neural networks and data marts with a depth of 0.8 and minimum peerage of 3. Note that in both Figure 1 and Figure 2, the node whose label is 'ShowCase STRATEGY (www://www.showcasecorp.com)' has been culled because its only peer is 'data mining' and so the node does not meet the minimum peerage requirement for image output of 3, although it is still part of the model from which the image is derived. The label is such simply because the dictionary from which the ontology is derived references the relationship in this way.) Figure 1 and Figure 2 are graph representations of models constructed using the MECUREO system. Figure 1 is the result of expanding the terms knowledge representation, genetic programming and data mining a distance of 0.8 in the ontology. For a smaller and clearer image, nodes in the graph with fewer than 3 peers (and their incident edges) were removed. Figure 2 is the result of similarly expanding the terms neural networks, data marts and STRATEGY after going through an intermediate concept matching step (see §3.2). Both graphs are generated using knowledge from the unmodified, automatically constructed ontology. Each node in the subgraph to be grown is given an initial weight to begin the query, which defaults zero. This can be specified along with the set of words from which the model is generated, or it can simply be the node weight assigned to a node in a previous query. The graph that results from the query will include all nodes visited along any path originating from any node in the input graph, whose path length is not more than the specified query distance, minus the weight of the originating node. However, in order to give greater emphasis to output nodes that are close to more than one node in the input subgraph, the weight assigned to any node adjacent to more than one input node is reduced. The reduction is calculated by treating the edges as if they were parallel resistors. This adjustment propagates outwards, such that any path from this node may be slightly longer. In this way, inputs (especially word lists) that tend to focus on groups of related concepts in the ontology will have these groups emphasised, while isolated concepts will have less growth. It also makes it possible to specify relatively small distances to grow (perhaps smaller than any edge weight) and yet still yield some growth if the input graph has one or more conceptual focal points. This type of query allows any computer science entity to be modelled, provided it can be translated into a set of key concepts. The ontology determines the relationships between those concepts and allows the model to be extended to include related concepts. As a side-effect, the nodes are each given a weight that reflects their closeness to the query input. This model may then be output, stored or used in further queries. These calculations rely upon the weights associated with the links within the ontology generated from the online dictionary of computer terms. We now describe the way we determine these. We have defined a base weight for each link type. This is a constant between 0 and 1. The actual weights are specified in a configuration set. We have chosen values which are both intuitive and which appear to produce sensible results on our training and evaluation sets. This approach seemed to provide better results than the more common practice of a common weight for all link types in such ontological structures. The

need for our differentiated link weight values may be due to the fact that our ontology was constructed automatically from an online dictionary, rather than being hand-crafted. This type-link is then adjusted according to the position of the phrase in the definition: later terms have a higher weight, indicating that the term is less closely related to the term being defined. The formula for the weight adjustment factor, pi, is calculated as:

p0 = 0

pi +1 = pi +
Here C is an adjustable positive constant, greater than one with 10 as the default. Small C values penalise later links in highly branching nodes while a large C distributes weights for successive links more gradually. As pi approaches 0.5, rearranging with the default of 10, this yields pi+1 = 0.05 + 0.9pi. Otherwise, the general closed form is

1 2

- pi C

pi =
with

1- ri 2 r = 1- 1 C

science domain. There is detail that would be lost if a simple stemmer, edit distance or even caseinsensitivity is used to match terms. For example, there is COM (Component Object Model or Computer On Microfilm) and there is com (www...com) for which two, distinct and distant nodes exist. Furthermore, the vast number of acronyms and proper nouns in our ontology are not suited to a stemmer for the English language. There is also an obstacle in the form of the size of our ontology, which makes a full scan of concepts time consuming. The procedure used to find the nodes in Figure 2 matches concepts simply on the case-insensitive stems of their component words. This takes constant time for each concept to be matched as string hashing is performed. However, if no stem match was found, a substring search is performed that takes linear time (on the size of the ontology ~104) for each concept to be matched. The stemmer used is a version of the Porters stemmer [3], slightly modified to perform on the international-English used in the FOLDOC [2] resource. For the query '"STRATEGY" "neural networks" "data marts"', the nodes ShowCase STRATEGY (www://www.showcasecorp.com), neural network, neural networks and data mart are matched. These nodes were then grown as described in §3.1 with a distance of 0.8 to produce Figure 2.

Essentially it gives a gradually increasing penalty smoothly tapered at 0.5. This formula is a compromise designed to give 'fair' weights to all links, be they in definitions with many links or not. Informal evaluations indicated that this strategy was more effective. Earlier experiments with more discrete weights gave poorer results for highly branching nodes. The formula spread the distribution of weights so that links mentioned early in a definition are treated as more closely related to the word being defined. This may seem a rather bold generalisation. However, it is reflected in the nature of many definitions in the dictionary. The final weight assigned to an edge is the sum of the base weight and the adjustment. It is possible for the weights of links whose type is explicitly weak to exceed 1.0, so this value is capped at 1.0. This allows a query to deliberately visit (at least) every node at a particular depth (as opposed to distance) without additional computation being required.

4 Matching Models

3.2 Concept Matching
Although our current work has assumed that we have been provided with a list of terms which describe each entity being compared, our longer term goal is to integrate the system with tools which can extract the terms from documents such as email, an on-line biography or a call for papers. The aim will be to find near matches between terms from the entity with nodes in the ontology and to calculate their relevance. This can then be used as a basis to model (and grow) the entity. To accomplish this, we have been evaluating the potential value of techniques such as stemming [3] and edit distance [4]. There are significant obstacles in developing a good matching procedure for concepts in the computer

The purpose of a matching query is to return a value, or set of values, reflecting the similarity of the two input graphs which models two entities we want to compare. In the case of Figures 1 and 2, there is considerable overlap: for example, artificial intelligence and its immediate peers. Ideally, we would like to quantify this in terms such as: these models are, say, approximately 70% similar. We have explored approaches to this task. We currently calculate the following measures: - the node weight, as assigned by a previous query, and we do so both for nodes that are common to both graphs and those appearing in only one graph; - the numbers of nodes present and common; - the relative sizes of the graphs, so that, for example, we can bias a subset comparison for model classification; - the distance in the ontology between a node in only one graph and any node of the graph in which it is not; - minimum weights of spanning trees; and - characteristics of the graph that would result from a merging of the input models. We envisage that the heuristic for combining these measures may need to depend upon the application. Some applications may weight some of these elements more highly. Other uses may simply preserve them as separate measures. Techniques in related work [9, 10]

may also show promise if they can be applied to our ontology without losing detail.

5 Evaluation

could be directly mapped to concepts in the ontology, for the purpose of comparing relationships. We then explored the role of near matches of terms across the two sources. For each parent node in the thesaurus that matched a node in the ontology, a point query was performed. The cost assigned to each matched child (as a result of the query) was used to evaluate the precision. This cost is simply the shortest path, so this value was recorded for each node that matched. The analysis of these values was then conducted by hand. Ideally the nodes would be adjacent and the path cost between them would be between 0.5 and 1.0. For synonyms and other strong relationships, 90% of costs ranged between 0.2 and 1.9 units. The mean cost was approximately 1.4 units, translating to an average of around two edges on each path. The remaining 10% of costs were too large to have the nodes considered as being directly related due to branching effects. Again, these results reflect how the focus of the thesaurus does not correspond directly to that of the dictionary. For example, parent concepts in the thesaurus such as artificial intelligence generally perform well due to their correspondence to a specific concept in the ontology. On the other hand concepts such as data processing are somewhat ambiguous in a computer science domain, and so did not perform as well.

It is difficult to evaluate an ontology and matches against them. Our first systematic step involved matching the ontology against concept maps created by senior undergraduate computer science students. A detailed account of the experimental procedure and the results can be found in [1]. To perform a comparison, we first automatically generated a concept map directly from the ontology. This was created by making a model expansion query using a single concept. This meant that in evaluating the ontology part of the model expansion procedure was evaluated as well. Overall, 105 of the 122 nodes drawn across all volunteers' concept maps matched exactly (~86%1) and only 4 of the 108 edges between matched concepts required more than two edges from the ontology to form the same path [1]. For the model matching procedure, informal evaluation has been conducted by comparing graphs derived by strategic modifications to a collection of mock models. This allowed algorithms to be analysed and for early refinement of the algorithms. We note that accuracy is hard to define for this problem. Being able to state that two models are, say, eighty percent similar is not feasible ­ neither for a computer nor a human. The problem is not to construct an isomorphism, but to determine how disparate two models are within the context of the ontology. Furthermore, we wish to make use of the additional meta-data in our ontology in the form of relationship weights to give an accurate comparison using all the available information. We have performed a comparison of our ontology against a trusted source, the ASIS Thesaurus of Information Science [11]. After pre-processing and parsing the thesaurus it was possible to use the same tools written for the ontology to aid our evaluation procedure. In the thesaurus, only 270 of the 1345 concepts were exact matches. With stemming, this was increased to 519 near matches. We then attempted to estimate where ontology was failing to match the thesaurus. We knew that part of the difference was due to the different orientation of the Thesaurus and the on-line dictionary which is the foundation for our ontology. The former has a strong business orientation where the latter is for computer science terms. Manual analysis of some portions of the thesaurus that are directly related to computer science, rather than business, suggests that approximately 60% of nodes

6 Related Work

1

the unmatched nodes were often specific instances of a concept or parts of the syntax used for a particular concept

The automatic construction of ontologies and extraction of semantic information from machine readable dictionaries and text is broadly interesting. Some important work in this area can be found in [5, 6] where the focus is deriving knowledge from a specific domain (such as within a corporation), and in [7, 8] where the focus is to determine semantics from knowledge in general, with little emphasis on proper nouns. Our work on automatic ontology construction has focussed on generating an ontology that can be used to assist in modelling computer science entities. For this reason, we took a different approach, building a detailed ontology of computer science backed by a weighted digraph to facilitate automatic querying. The task of matching terms with a similar meaning has been tackled by a quite diverse set of approaches. For example, [12] explores the use of formal concept analysis in the context of document retrieval rather than modelling user interests as a first stage in matching users. Another similar project, [13], also uses lattices for inferring user interests. However, it uses the lattices as a basis for interacting with the user to elicit an expanded self-description. Similarly, [14] addresses the problem of building richer models of people's interests by relying on knowledge elicitation from the user, but it uses taxonomic representation of computer terms.

[11] ASIS [American Society for Information Science] Thesaurus of Information Science; (visited 2002-08-08, published 2002-02-07), at
http://www.asis.org/Publications/Thesaurus/isframe.htm

MECUREO's term growing algorithms are based on the intuitive notion that a pair of terms that are more similar should be closer in the ontological graph. This idea is not novel and was recognised in the earliest work on semantic networks reviewed in [14, 15]. [12] P. Becker, P.Eklund. Using formal concept analysis for document retrieval. ADCS, 2001. [13] H. Suryanto, P. Compton. Discovery of Ontologies from Knowledge Bases. First International Conference on Knowledge Capture, 2001. [14] R. F. E. Sutcliffe, D. O'Sullivan, A. McElligot, L. Sheahan. Creation of a Semantic Lexicon by Traversal of a Machine Tractable Concept Taxonomy. Journal of Quantitative Linguistics, 1995.

7 Conclusion
This paper has described our approaches to constructing a detailed computer science ontology as a basis for generating and comparing models of computer science entities from limited information. We accomplish this by using combinations of ontology queries. We have reported our initial evaluations which suggest that the approach is promising.

References
[1] T.Apted and J.Kay. Automatic Construction of Learning Ontologies. ICCE, 2002 Workshop on Ontologies for Learning, to appear. [2] FOLDOC - the Free On-Line Dictionary Of Computing [© 1993 by Denis Howe, updated regularly], at http://www.foldoc.org/ [3] M. F. Porter. An algorithm for suffix stripping. Program, 1980. [4] I. V. Levenshtein. Binary Codes capable of correcting deletions, insertions, and reversals. Cybernetics and Control Theory, 1966. [5] D. Moldovan, R. Girju, V. Rus. DomainSpecific Knowledge Acquisition from Text. ANLP, 2000. [6] J. Kietz, R. Volz. Extracting a DomainSpecific Ontology from a Corporate Intranet. Proceedings of CoNLL-2000 and LLL-2000, Lisbon, Portugal, 2000. [7] S. D. Richardson, W. B. Dolan, L. Vanderwende. MindNet: acquiring and structuring semantic information from text. ACL, 1998. [8] G. A. Miller, R. Beckwith, C. Fellbaum, D. Gross, K. Miller. Introduction to WordNet: An On-line Lexical Database. 1990 (revised 1993). [9] A. Maedche, S. Staab. Measuring Similarity between Ontologies. EKAW, 2002. [10] D. B. Leake, A. Maguitman, A. Cañas. Assessing Conceptual Similarity to Support Concept Mapping. Proceedings of the Fifteenth International Florida Artificial Intelligence Research Society Conference, 2001.

[15] P. Resnik. Semantic Similarity in a Taxonomy: An Information-Based Measure and its Application to Problems of Ambiguity in Natural Language. Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, 1999.

Managing Literature References with Topic Maps
Robert Barta IT School Bond University rho@bond.edu.au Abstract 2.1
Using the AsTMa=[3] notation for compactness, the following TM fragment defines a topic: Listing 1: Topic definitions
ltm - spec ( l - specification ) reifies \ http :// www . ontopia . net /.../ ltm . html bn : LTM , The Linear Topic Map Notation bn @ latex : { LTM }, The Linear Topic \ Map Notation oc ( cite - code ) @latex : urn : bibtex : lmg01 in : This technical report defines ...

Kate Kelly Library Services Bond University kkelly@bond.edu.au Topics

This article introduces Topic Map (TM) authoring and ontology engineering. With a running example of a simple TM-based literature reference database we show how a localized ontology can be defined to constrain and describe our knowledge domain. We then use the same technique to describe the structure of the BibTEX format. These two ontologies can then be used to formalize a mapping between them. For this purpose we use an experimental TM query language. Keywords Topic Maps, References, Ontology

1

Introduction

It carries the id ltm-spec and is an instance of the concept l-specification. It has a base name (indicated by bn) reifying the online document at the given URL. Other information a topic may contain is inline data (in) which may contain descriptive text, and occurrences (oc) which hold URIs. Inline data and occurrences can be typed, as it is the case with the cite-code occurrence above.

In the context of literature references the Topic Map standard[2] can be used to store meta data along with references to external objects. One of the objectives was also that users can have highly localized concepts but also can use globally defined ones to simplify exchange and conciliation of multiple maps. In the following we elaborate on how TM concepts and technologies can be used to provide an open and manageable framework to define and operate with ontologies.

2.2

Associations

Associations are statements about the relationships of various topics. The following
( is - author - of ) opus : ltm - spec author : p - lars - marius - garshol

2

TM authoring

would state that "the topic p-lars-mariusgarshol plays the role of the author in an is-author-of association whereby p-lars-mariusgarshol plays the role of an opus". All topics have been referenced via an URI and are declared separately.

Topic Maps are a relatively new technology in the Semantic Web arena[13]. Their most obvious difference to RDF[12] is that they use a two-level approach[9, 10]: The more lexicographical part of a topic map consists of topics which represent (reify) real world objects but also abstract concepts. Here the main focus is on naming issues for different contexts and also URIs to objects external to the map. The semantic aspect of TMs is covered with associations. Other than RDF statements they are not (subject, predicate, object) triples, but coerce any number of topics together, whereby each of these topics plays a specific role.
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

3

TM Ontology Engineering
Ontologies--once defined--can be used to provide formal and informal rules how to create TM documents. In an integrated TM authoring environment ontologies can be used to guide the authoring process in the same way as XML schemas are used for XML authoring. Other uses include filtering

of TM documents according to their ontology conformance or reconciliation of heterogeneous data sources[7]. As in the following we can also use ontologies to create a projection, i.e. a particular view into a topic map. The topic ltm-spec defined in listing 1 would be represented in BibTEX as follows:

3.1
While there exists a general set of requirements for an ontology language[8], at the time there are only proposals for TM ontology specification languages (e.g. [11]). In the following we use AsTMa![5] which extends the authoring language AsTMa= with regular expressions, quantifiers and boolean operators. To define an ontology L for the literature references we first have to set up some basic vocabulary and taxonomy: As such, BibTEX follows its own schema definition which serves there the role of an ontology. To allow for a formalized mapping within one single formalism, we have captured this BibTEX schema in an AsTMa! constraint by characterizing the document classes and its specific attributes.
b - book ( class ) b - report ( class ) publisher ( attribute ) ( is - subclass - of ) subclass : l - book superclass : l - document # similar for articles , reports , ...

Source Ontology

@misc { urn : bibtex : lmg01 , author = {{ Garshol , Lars Marius }}, title = {{ LTM }, The Linear Topic Map Notation }, year = {2001}, url = { http :// www . ontopia . net /...} }

Given that, we can now make explicit the rules specific for BibTEX, such as that a book must have a title (we conveniently store that in a base name):
every [ $b ( book ) ] => exist [ $b bn : * ]

Aside from the vocabulary we have to set up rules on individual literature references. The rules can either prescribe (MUST), suggest (MAY) or forbid (MUST NOT) particular patterns found in a conforming topic map. In our case we police that every document should have an author:
every [ $t ( l - document )* ] => exists ] ( is - author - of ) opus : $t author : $a [

All other attributes we plan to save via an generic is-attribute-of association. We only have to define that all these associations must have a particular layout:
every $a [ ( is - attribute - of ) ] => exists $a ] ( is - attribute - of ) object : * attribute : * value : * [

First we single out all topics which are instances of l-document. The * symbolizes that these can be direct instances or instances of a subclass of l-document. For all those documents we prescribe the existence of an appropriate association. The ][ around the association pattern has to be read as exactly so, while the [] allow a more liberal interpretation. Using this technique we add more rules to build the complete ontology.

A more application specific rule would be that every book also must have a publisher attribute while we do not care about its value:
every [ $b ( book ) ] => exists [ ( is - attribute - of ) object : $b attribute : publisher ]

3.2

Target Ontology

In a similar way we proceed with all other attributes and all other BibTEX classes.

In this section we discuss one particular application where we use our literature ontology to filter only specific aspects out of a topic map. In this process we have to define a mapping between literature reference information in Topic Map form and a conventional database system which follows the entityattribute paradigm. Our database format will be BibTEX[6] which prescribes a set of document classes (books, reports, . . . ). Each of these classes consists of specific mandatory or optional attributes (author, title, . . . ).

4

Ontology Mapping
To mediate between L and the BibTEX ontology B we can hardcode the mapping directly into an application. This was actually done, not only to get working code but also to understand the practicalities involved.

4.1
every [ $t ( document )* ] => suggested exists [ $t bn @ latex : * ] every [ ( is - author - of ) author : $a ] => suggested exists [ $a bn @ latex : * ]
A If the mapping application finds a L TEXvariant of the title, then that should have preference over an unscoped title. In the similar way author namA ing can be tailored for L TEX.

Specification

In a first step the relevant topics of the literature ontology have to be identified as those which are a direct or indirect subclasses of l-document. For all these (l-book, l-article. . . ) we have to define their respective counterparts in B . While obviously a l-book in L will correspond with b-book in B , for other document types in L this choice is less obvious. According to B the class then will define which attributes are mandatory and which are optional for this object. For the book title, publisher, year and author or editor have to be defined, whereas the volume and other attributes are optional. For all the above attributes values have to be identified in the source map. For the example specification document provided in listing 1, the application will have to follow all is-author-of associations for that particular document to identify the topics playing the author role there. The base names of the respective topics will be used as value for the author. One complication is due to the fact that BibTEX citations need a cite code which we suggest to exist in L:

4.2

Formalization

every [ $t ( document )* ] => suggested exists [ $t oc @ latex ( cite - code ): * ]

With these specifications above a dedicated application can now perform the mapping. One of the promises of a uniform formalism, though, is that such a mapping between two ontologies can be defined within that formalism. For this purpose we make use of an experimental TM query language, AsTMa?[4]. In the same way as SQL operates on tables to return a table and XQuery[1] operates on XML documents to return an XML document, AsTMa? queries analyze topic maps following the source ontology and return maps conforming to the target ontology. As an introductory example, let us consider the conversion of books together with their titles:
in " literature . tm " where exists [ $b ( l - book ) bn @ latex : $t ] return { $b } ( b - book ) bn : { $t }

As the code is only useful in a particular context, we have added a scope latex to restrict its validity to that scope. We strengthen this code to be unique within one map:
every [ $t1 oc ( cite - code ): $code ] => not exists [ $t2 oc ( cite - code ): $code ]

This rule first singles out all topics having a cite code; they will be bound to the variable $t1 and the corresponding value of the code is bound to $code. In the second clause it will then be checked whether there is a topic which contains an identical cite code. The--somewhat unorthodox--AsTMa! semantics enforces that two differently named variables cannot be bound to the same values, so the topic ids must be different. Another issue involves BibTEX expecting a particular layout style for some attributes. Titles, for instance, have to follow a particular capitalization depending on the document class. As it is difficult to formalize these rules in B , we will have to burden the author of a map conforming to L to provide appropriate input:

Here we iterate over the sourced topic map and look for all submaps which conform to the condition provided by the where clause. We are selecting all submaps which contain a l-book topic with a A L TEX-ready title. According to the AsTMa? language semantics only those submaps will be considered which are minimal in that they do not contain unnecessarily other topics or associations while still be conforming. In our case the submaps will only consist of the l-book topics. Any duplicates will then be discarded. For all these submaps the return clause is evaluated. The return clause contains AsTMa= code, this time for constructing a new map. We reuse the topic id of a particular l-book topic also as id for topic in the target map. As all these ids are bound to the variable $b, they can be referred to as {$b}. A more sophisticated query would capture more information about a book:

The references for this article are mastered via the aforementioned prototype.

References
[1] XQuery, W3C Working Draft 16 august 2002. W3C. [2] XML Topic Maps (XTM) 1.0 Specification. TopicMaps.Org, 2001. [3] Barta, R. AsTMa= language definition, technical report. Bond University, 2001. http://www.it.bond.edu.au/publications/02TR/0214.pdf. [4] Barta, R. AsTMa? (Asymptotic Topic Map Notation, Querying), tutorial. Bond University, 2002. http://astma.it.bond.edu.au/astma%3F.dbk. [5] Barta, R. AsTMa! language definition, technical report. Bond University, 2002. http://astma.it.bond.edu.au/astma!spec.dbk. [6] H. Kopka, P. W. Daly. A Guide to LaTeX. Addison Wesley, 1999. [7] H. Wache, T. Voegele, U. Visser, H. Stuckenschmidt, G. Schuster, H. Neumann and S. Huebner. Ontology-based integration of information - a survey of existing approaches. Proceedings of the IJCAI-01 Workshop: Ontologies and Information Sharing', Seattle, WA, pages 108-117. [8] J. Heflin, R. Volz, J. Dale. Requirements for a Web ontology language, W3C working draft 08 july 2002. [9] Jonathan Robie. The syntactic web - syntax and semantics on the web. XML 2001, 2001.

in " literature . tm " where exists [ $b ( l - book ) bn @ latex : $t ] and exists [ ( is - author - of ) opus : $b author : $p $p ( person ) bn @ latex : $n ]* return { $b } ( b - book ) bn : { $t } ( is - attribute - of ) class : { $b } attribute : author value : { join (", ", $n )}

Again we use first a pattern to identify one topic being an l-book. In the second exists clause we now identify the association which links the author to the book $b. A subtle difference is the symbol * trailing this pattern. With this we signal greedy matching to the TM processor, i.e. that the matched submap should have as many instances of this pattern as possible. This results then in a list of matches. As before the processor will only pass through those minimal maps which do not violate the where clause (no junk). In the construction part within the return clause we again refer to a single book adding the matched title as base name. In accordance with B we also generate an association is-attribute-of to add the author information which we have matched before. As we have matched multiple names the processor will have captured the individual names within a list $n. We concatenate these strings in the list and use the result as attribute value. Once the target map has been built it is trivial to convert this into the final BibTEX text format.

5

Conclusion

[10] Lacher,-M.-S.; Decker,-S. Rdf, topic maps, and the semantic web. Markup-Languages:Theory-&-Practice. Summer 2001; 3(3): 31331, 2001. [11] Lars M. Garshol. The Ontopia Schema Language. ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC34, Information Technology ­ Document Description and Processing Languages. [12] O. Lassila and K. Swick. Resource description frame-work (RDF) model and syntax specification, technical report, W3C. 1999. [13] T. Berners-Lee. Feature article: The semantic web. Scientific American, 2001.

We have demonstrated how TM engineering can be used to manage structured content and how ontologies can be used to constrain the content. The declarative nature of ontologies allows us to freely combine ontologies. Thus a document which satifies two ontologies can be said to satisfy a combination of the two. Then we formalized a simple entity-attribute model into an ontology using generic association. This was the basis to formalize the mapping between the two ontologies which would enable a generic query processor to translate a topic map from one ontology into another.

!`  í ·è³ù ü  ¯ èU ñ  é è¦ èq ô ê èxì èS ¯ í(  ë³üÂ è Y   ë ¦ ç 5 è ·çx ù¤ ê è·S ü ìp ë ñ è u ùx í é ä9 å 7   é¦ ë è·S ü(   ä èD¥   üx ë ñ è ûu èí  è û·ü ä û·éù³üü³2 ù  ô ê·Q ù î ³ü ü ëå ùG  p   6 S ! u ò íx ë¢ ê É ë &D ö æx ä ñB &2 ê x í í èx ñ öx ä ñ S è & êI í ë í è ³û ü¯ è í  ç èB &7 ê x äy ê í ³ò ü ëpI ê ñu èS íØ æ  èB &Ì êx è ñ è£ & W ô` î ñ¯ èS í¦ æ è éä êqS í æq 2 èD ì Y   ë ¦ ç í ù5 & 6D ! 3 è ç³¯ ù& ê ø¹ ä G  ä³x ù ñD èc  8   è7   éx è ê %¹ è  éB ë  ñ èW ûä í ` è ö¯ ëx í í5 è º ç  ö é³ ùS ö éS ë &) å% ¦ è ³è ü(   äx è   ø¢ ä  ñx è ì6 ç æv é B  ñ ëp¯ ñ ê· ù ìx ñë é¢  ë è³ûü ä û·éº ù Y   ë h ç é·äx ùW êx ëx í ñ è û é ä! å "P !` í è æ ·éx ù ê é ä9Â å  é ³ä¯ ù ê¯ ëí © ñ è û é9 ä å  è &h ê 7   éº ë é·ä¯ ù¯ íx í æ9x å ³í ù   èB & êÅ¯ ä¹ ê ¯ è êS æ ·ìx ù¯ ñ ê é ä¦ å Y   ë ç í ñu x èS í æ ñ è &7 ê d !  å ùD  ¯ äB ê x å 1I9 ù` åx è  í ë ê æD ä ì2 ë  è ö¯ ëx í í5 è 8 ç  ë í7   éu èí 7 é2 ë  í¯ è íD ä$  ç9 ä¢ å 1ü³ ü ë¯ ù ·ê ù ³é2 ù  ñ¯ èS í3 æ  ë î í ) ñ ëx äU ì  é ä³u ùx íS í æ¯ å í ù  é·ù î³èü$   ç ë%  è ñ ä T 7 ! W  ¡W    p  x W p  Å7 ë í ùB &Q ê ü· ü ëE å ¦ è ð² !  e w  î  w î% V $ w  î  y wx` í è ö¯ ëx í í è5E ç 8   è ³é ùS ë) &E å ·ü üx ëS ñ¯ æW êx ëx é øB ä  èS ö éS ë) & å%  è6 éë íÃ ë  èx é I% è CD èÉ ì  é ë åÄ¯ ò í ëp¹ ê & ë î³ü ù ë j ç ©%Ø è  ø$ ä  ê %¯ è ê é ä9å  è &BÄ ê én÷ v ÿ S | ÿ@  ¡ ¦  }  |Sy ~qp   3  § u ¦ Ê  Y t E i s q r ¢ b q |7  ` {p i hb | g f !   íu ò íx ë ê øØ ä íSx æW êx ëu êE í  èB &¨ ê  ö ³é ù òp å ëp¯ ñê ³é¨ ù ñu èx í æ¹ èB & êÅ ö ³é¯ ù¯ ê ñD ä¡  ¡  ¯ æh í b  º ì 7   éÃ ë u ò íx ëh ê é5 ä 3 ç ç9 ä åÅ¦ ë ¯ äê ö é·ù S ö é ä³ üD èB ì  í è ö¯ ëx í í è5E ç èS& ê6 ö ·éS ù¡   æx ä ñ ö ³ü ü ë å¯ ù ê ë  ç¯ ä ê æ¢ ë G  ì í ñu x è íS6 æ êqíu ùx í íÃ ë ¯ ä¨ ê í² ù ü ë ä3 ö  ñª æ e d 7 !  ö é³ ù (` ë¯ èS ñ &Ã ê 7   é ëµ é ³ä¯ ù ê ëå ©7V I¯ ù¯ í íë³ ü åB³ü ù ë  ç å¯ ù íS ë¢ ì  è &Ø ê  ø6 ä  ñB è W ôx äc   è &Ä ê  ö ·é ù7  éx è ê É è G  ì ³í³üù ë j ç ©%U è   ¯ è í ëSj ìb © u ò íx ë ê ø7 ä  ê é è5 ç è ö ëS é5 ë çª ñ «äøªu ê ñx ä¡  7  u æ¹ í S ö é·ù ©bW û äx ñ$  ç·3 ù ¯ ä² ê íS è) & å ëx ä ñ¡  (  ª ë x è ñ³ä üF  % 8 è ¦ èØ ô  ñx è(  ëS5  ³ í ùS& ¢ ê én÷ !a¯ ò íp ë¨ ê S ö é· ù ä ö éU ä  é ë øØ ä ¯ ê ñx ë`  èxì  ëç¹W Y ê ëSB &ê  í  ç¯ è ·êùª³ü ù ë Ã ç  ö é³ ù 0 ù é öä9 åx è¹ ñ ñ«ä ø  í ¯ ç ³í ù éS ë &) å è5ç ¨  p ¯  «¥   7 é6 ë  ñ è & ê è öx äE ê  í  ç¯ è ·êù²³ü ù ë Ã ç   x èW ê ëüx èÅ ñ  ö ³é9 ù åë ü ñ«äø p    · 9   X  íu ò íx ë ê ø7 ä ê é5 è ç è öS ë é5 ë Ä ç &)S åu æ8 í  ñ «äøªu ê ñx ä¡  7  u æí  ø ä í x ç ñ «ä¢ ø ¦ äq ô6 ê  è  ùW û¯ ä ñW  p í ê é³è·ùüÌ å ·ü ù ë5j ç ©%# è üS ë é³ä¯ ù ·ê ù(  ëp& ñ6 !   í¯ ò í ëp& ê øØ ä x í êu èí  ñ èB & êÌ ä ñ«ä ø ³ü ù ë 7 ç  èB & ê5& · ê2 ù ô6 é èW ûB ä ¯ ô ñ¯ è ê é³7 ù D è¨ ì ·üü ë å ùG  @  ê ³ü·ü2 ù ô  è &54 6 S ! u ò íx ë# êW êS ëB &ê x ä$ ê   x èW ê ë üx èy ñ` í è öx ëx í í è5¦ ç èS&  ê ü· ü¨ ë ( & öS æx ä ñ& ê 1³ ü ü ëå³x ùW ê ë  çx èq ê í í ¯ ò ñ¦ ä ô5¯ äB ê x í æ ä³ ù  x è ê 7   é7 ë êÖ ü æ å VU ù  D è¹ ì  é ëå ÖêùÌîü³ ù ë 7 ç  øU ä 5 è  ç æ³ ü äB û  ü ë¯ ù ê éx ëu êS í ì¯ æÉ í 3 ë  í è·û ù9 è åx è5 ñ  ñ¯ è íSU æ è& ê ø·ù# î ³è ü $ ç ë %3 è  ñ äSR T S ! u ò íx ë¤ ê ë x ç ñ «ä¯ ø ñD è R¯ ä êÅ ö ·éù ö é ³èü³ üS ë &)5 å êÖù QS é IP é ë¢ å  ñ¯ è íSÃ æ  ë  é è£ & ¹ ô  í5 è ³ç¯ ùº ê G  é5 ë ¤ ç x è ñ ëÅx è ñS è &ê  ê ëS& ê í S é` ë3 è U ç í ù &5H 6  !  íu ò íx ëE ê øU ä ¯ í í³ë ü å  é ä55 ç  ç ä¦ å S è é ä G   é ëw¯ äê ê ¯ ñD ä¡  ¡  ¯ æ í3·ê9 ù å³ù üF  %  èÅ äE é  í è ³û ù3 ö Öêù# î3 è ³ç¯ ùê 3 è  ç¯ ë¢ í  è & ê6B ê " !E8  ¯ è êD   ä(  ¢ ë 1 ü è 2 ù U ô 7   éy ë ü «æu ø¯ í` í è9 åx åu æí ¯ ä íw é è èD3 ì  íS ë &C·ê ù W êS ëB &Ã ê é¯ ä í ëx è ñ  è & êª ø ä5u ê ñS ë $ê éx ë¯ ê ñ äD$  ç·ù é ëº³íÃ  ù í ù &5A 6 9 ! é· äx ù êW ë å³ ùS é¨ æ 5 ç ç äº å  ñ¯ èS íU æ  øº ä ê9¯ è íÂ¯ è íp ñ è û³ ù  ³ ü¯ ù ñx ëx ñ êÖ ùx ì ñÑ ë éh ë ¯ ê ñD ä¡  ¡  ¯ æ íÇ¯ äÇ ê @ · ê ³ùü· ù ³ì ù% S èw ó èS& êh·êÉ ù ` í è ³û ùö

í ù &5 6 9 !  é ä·x ùW ê ë å ù é6 æ 5 ç  ç ä9 åx í æ ä é ä¯ ñ) &x å é  í5 ë 8  u è íS ë ì ©  è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç  ø7 ä ¯ ê ñD ä¡  ¡  æ¯U í ( ëx ä ñ6 ì  è &Ø ê íI ù ³ü ù ëçj% © è# ø$ ä ³è üx äI ñ üx ë ê é è5 çS ë7   é «æø è5 & 4 6  !  ê é è û è ü ë9 ù å¯ ä7 í ëx ø& ä íü³ ùx ë ê è5   è &7 ê ö·éùS é é ë ü4  ñ ä ñ è¯u ê íD ä ë  2 í ëU) &S å¯ æí  ê é5 è ç9 æ å ä ¥ ê ³é ùq ä 23 ë é¨ ä S ö ·é ù òx ñB ä ô î ñ è&  ê¢ ä ) & å ëè ê  è5 è º ç äxÉ ê S ö é· ù 10 ù é ëx ö ñ¹ ä  í ë ) &S å¯ æ¹ í  í¯ ò í ëxw ê  é5 ä ç3 ç9 ä å¢ ê æD ä ìë ³è ü(   äx è'   é è¦ èq ô ê èx¸ ì  é ³ä¯ ù ê ë å ù é¨ æ 5 ç  ç9 äÇ å  è &v ê íµ ù ` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç ü³ ù ëj ç% ©E è  ø äÅ¯ è ñ9 ä å ê é ëx¯ ê ñ äD$  ç· ù é7# "  !  í è¯ íD ä  ñS æ   øÅ ä  è ö ép ëñ  ³  èx ù ñW ë û  ü5 è  çx è ñ¯ ê ! è é ë  ñ «ä! ø   ¯ èS í æ  ü è ù2 ô íÅ ù ³ü ù ëj ç © ¨ ÿ§ ÿþ ý   ¦¡D }7  ¥ ¤ ¢£¡   ~}  ü  ë û ·èx ù ñ¯ ê è2ú é ³ä¯  ù ê ë5x ç ñ«äøn éÉ ÷ ` î ê é è5 ç è öS ë éÄ ë ½ õ ê é5 è  ç æ åª ä É â $ î W ôx ä ó òx ñ¦ ä ð ê  é3 è çS9 æ å7 ä ï â  î í¯ è íS ë ìx ëW ê8 ë â  ê é5 è ç9 æ åª ä ã â  á àx ß¨ Þ Q Ý Ü¤ Û Ú £6 9  pS   p ¥ x  ¦  W  ¡W  p  ¦Î p p   ·  «¥   ©    ¯  j   x¦    pS  ¥      «¥É    W  ²h ©   «¥µ   s W º  p  W  ¡` W S  ¥xp ´  5  n    ¢   y W  S  ¡  D    ¨  ` 5  8  q ¨  S  W W     «¥3   n S       ¥ Ö¨p  S6  9    ¨  ÙW    9E ° £9 ²  © ¨ ¶ p s  9  ´ W p 3    «¥¨   W     ²©      9  «¥ Âq ¾  ¥p p   q    ² W ©S ¦ ¶ W     ·  ¯  S  ¥w   p  nW  p  ¡ D    Sp W  6   Ø  ×v £  9 ²  Wn  9Ã    x S 6 ¥ n 9 É § ¢Å  S & ¥5 © 9    DW µ    9B    ·¯ W  S ¶    p U     ¥ Ö¨3  ¢     «¥º    W  ¡W   p   x W p  q ¬    p5 ´  x     «¥   n±   ·  ´¯   7 ¶ Wp ±  p Õ ´ n   Ô9  W  p ¥    ²©   ·Óp    s¶Wp  Å  ¥s½ ¤ 9 £  ¨  x   Ã   ¨ p  x W  ¨W Â  «¥  Å © p s p 9 p  S x Ê    S  ¥½   x ÁS W  ¡W   p   x W  p  q   p   · p S ´p v   S j p    7 ¶  v     W  p ´     ¡   p 9 W  S x Ç  u  ÒW  ¡9  p  · p Ñ  ±     j x  W p  ¥ ¡ x & ¥ ©   56  q   D  ¶x  ¤Ä  ¨`  W W S  ¢W S  p    ·W p  j   5  p  Áx W  ³W  n9   µ  Â  x  p W  9« S  ¶5W W S  ¥U² 3 © x Á6  p  S   p ¥x   Ä  9 9  «¥  Ã q  x  9D  W    p  7¡ÐÃ  S  ¥Ä   q    ¨ D   jp  p   D  Ä  W    ¨ ` W x D ¶   6   9  ÅW  ¡W   s   W9  5U    µ Ï  £ ¡p   n p    ¦  D      ¦Î p p   ·  Ë ¯ 8 Í ¡°Ì s ËÊ ¤ É  ÈxS    9  ·  µ   p  S8 ¥ W  w  ¯  D   jp  Ç   Æ ®¯ n     «¥ ÅW  93  p S x ¥  ¯  s ¶p ¶Ä  q Ã    ¨W x h  Â    ·D 7 ¶  ½  W p ½  p ¥ ¡& ¥© S    ¡9 µ   5  !  Áx À Q ¿¨ ¤ ¯ ° p p  ¡´p  9 9   ¾  p ¶ ½ ¶ D ¥¤ s £ W¡W   p   x W p 6  S  ¥E   q   Wp ¯    «¥2    W2  W  S  ¥U   ¯ ®W  j3   S  ¥3   q     ¼xj x  W p     «¥¦   ¥¯  ´n p  9  n¹        «¥   ·  ´s 9 h  ·  ² $ ©  ¢W »  9 S  ¥¢   qº   ¨ p  x9 p  x D ¶  ¢ 9  ¹    «¥¹   n W   n   9 6  · W  ² ©  D ¥ ¤ s £W  ¡W   p 9 W S  p  ¢s W  W¯ p   p   ¨  pp  ¸  ` ¶ ¯   ¨p  ¡  5    j     · W p   ¡x  9  ¡   5  ¤ ª  p  ¶  ¤ ¥ pµ ´ ³ W ² 3 © p   °± £¯ ®W  j   W   6  x v  ¬  «¥  © x   ¤p ¥ ¡ & ¥ª © 9   ¨ p p  7  u $  p  D S 9 p § 6  8  u  ¦p   p  W p E   9  s ¥¤ £ ¢ SW  ¡W    p9  WS   p     9  p     S   53  W p     W   n  B D }   ~ }8 | w { z q Xn D oD q` su t oQD s Hy r qx o Rn5 a  m HD s qk u yx j f u r w# U i h g fsD eD ed I b  #  # iI I  b D g e p  w y`  rs   yi    yDs  es f e# i dW c7  w  s i e yx wv u ` ts rq e& gp i h8gD2 e fD& e# eW dI cb HD¦ X h v HD# sI qG lk q Xn# D oD q` s tuQ oD s H rQqopn R5 a m9aD XD Y XW VP ujyx f u r w# U i h g fseDD ed I b  #  # iI I  b D g ep  w y`  r s yi  s ys  eD f e## iW d c7    s i e yx wv u ` t rsq e& gp i8 h D g e2D f& e# eW dI cb a` D XD Y XW VU P E T RSQ PI HG FE    " CDB A @   "¢  ! 4   6  ¥9 8 © & " 7 § 6  5 4 3  ¥21 0 ) & $   " ( ' & %$  # " ©!§     ¡      ©¨ § ¦ ¥ ¤ £ ¤ £ ¡¢ 

7F  b  b  {  7 z (  ~ }   9  C | b s   D  { r Q z  p  qb% p) ) gS e  o E m G z  y a  S  Q  y7w R z sE oj G e r  c v S s 7 y x w Q d  j a g E o vc¡ s  u 7 g (t  S s Y o 7  x r G  1 pj G e  pb q  p B) g eS o n m j i( g l k a  j i ghG f `  F e a d  a  D  8  7  % 5  

øjÂ ÷ !( è öx ë¯ í` í3 è ç  êS ë &¦ ê x äÉ ê S ö ·é ù  ü x èº ñ ·ü üS ë¯ æ9 ê åë  ê ä5 é í ù  ñ¯ è íSæ  ñx è(  ëS 9 8 ©h 7 72 æ ³íS ù & ê W ô ³ä³ü ü äB T2 6 j x  W p 6  p ê` å èqF 2 ì¯ æ í   è &¬  ê  é è£ &  ô  é è ûU è ¯ í` í¯ è ñ7  (  $ ë ·üù ë ç ©¬ è  éw ë  ö ³é ùG  @  êÅ è û¯ ë íw¯ äê X çx  ñ «ä ø èB && ê ø ä î ·ü üS ëæ ê é è·ù³9 ü¢ å ë² ø ä @ Ö ê ù³ü³9 ù å ¡ëU ø  ü x è¨ ñ S è &E ê ¯ èS í æ Y   ë ç íp ñ¯ è íS¨ æ S è5 & 6 ©  é ë ç  ñ¢ ä 1³ü ü ë ³åx ùW ê ë çx ä ê æx ë îQ  x èW êp ë ñ è é èE ö D è¤ ì  é ë7 å  í ³èü2 æ ú  ! í³S ù &I ê øØ ä  í ¯ ç ñ «äx ø ü ëx ñ è ûu èí ¡ !  ( è ö ëx¯ í` í5 è 5 ç  ë ø ä¢F  Fx ä$ ì S è &ê è é·ù³¯  ü ê æ¦ ä W ô äÌ é¦ è D ð ! S í é·äx ùW êx ëx í ñ è û é ä7 å ¯ ä ê ³és ù í è ö¯ ëx í í5 è  ç ³ü ù ë j ç ©%è  ö é³ ù7  ³ æ ü9x å é·3 ù u è íx äB  ñ æ  í ù &ª ê ñ«äÅ ø   ¯ èS í5 æ x è ì Y   ë E ç  è ö ëx¯ í` í3 è ç¢ë  ø äé·äx ùW ê ëD å IV¯ ù¯ í í³ë ü$ å   x èW ê ë çx ä ê æ ë ñ «äs ø í ö ·éù5ç9 äx å¯ ê ñS ä§ &y íx í æ³ä¯ ù ñu èí  ø äªx í¯ ê ñS ë ³üü  "  !  í  üS è{ I ³ ü ù ëç ©7 è x í æ ä³¯ ù ñ ë¦ û øª ä  í è ³æ üW ë3 û è& Ä ê  éä 5 è  çu ä í  è ûS ë &5 í  ç¯ èu ê í  í  ö é³¯ ùu ê ³í ù %¹ è b  ¢ ì   ¯ èS íB æ  í ³èù ö¯ è êx ëx ñq ê$ í  è5 & 6  ¯  è íx ë ìQ î  èx ñ è ö ³ö¯ ù ñx$ ê D è ìÅ é è &BU ê  é ë åª í ³èüx æ$ ñ èu` í è &5£ 6  !  í ò¯ íx ëê  ñä í ñ è üä«¢ ø äx ê ·é8 ù  í è ö ëx¯ í` í5 è ç¤ Öøù¯¯ í í ³ë üÄ å ·ü ü ë å¯ ùW ê ë ç¯ ä ê æ¦ ë ) & å ù &£ô " ¤ p | ÿ§  ¡ ¦ & } q } ¦ t ¦ R Q¤ í ` è · ü S ¯ æ ñ  è  S é I% è #  ä¯º ê x í ñ  è u í x æ ô W ä ³ ü ³ ü  ë µ p í ê   é è ³ ù · ü  å U ü ³ ù  ë  ç j ©Ê % è b   éÅ ë õ  !  í è öx ë¯ í` í è5¹ ç 8  x è¡  æ¯ ä ñ$ ö  è &¹ ê (  ` ë¯ èS ñ &3 ê ¯ äê 5 f "¤ I | q § u ¥ ¤ ¡°  ¨ x 9  Ä$ ¿ ` íu èS íÄ æ  é èB &7 ê êj8 ÷ j ! ¢p² Æp © ±  7   éI ëp ¢` Æ¯     ö ³é ùW û ä5 ç¯ èñ !`  Æ  ¯  Ä 7  (  ë¹Y   ë ç ñ¯ è ê ø ë x í9 ê åq èF 2  ì¯ æ7 í 5 è  çx ë¹ í B & êÖ2 ù  ô` í è ö¯ ëx í í5 è çS í 7 æx ä ñ öx í íx è ñF    ¨   è &¢ B ê & ö D æ S ä &· ê ü  ë  î   í è  ö  ¯ ë í x  í è 5 ç   ü  ¯  è ñ ¤ é ³ ù p ê å ` è q 2F ì æ ¯ í  è 5 ç  ë ¯ í ¨ è S &ê ò ä ä³¯ ü êª æ dR øä S ç & ·ê¯ ù ñ ä³ö ü ë  ö é³ ù (` ë¯ è ñS& w ê  èB &ê Q î8  ¯ èp ê` å ·è ü èuµ í ³íù è x û ñ¯ è íx è ñ9  p í ê é ³è·ù ü å ü· ù ë ç © è7G  éëy çD X  è ·é³ù ü  p   43S ´D 2 À è&  ê ø ä³è ü äxñ í (`  ë¯ è ñB &2 ê ¯ ä ê é³ùQ í è öx ë¯ í` í è5ç87   æx ä ñ7 ö x ä ê  é ä³¯ ù êD  ² ä èB &$ ê  éS è& ð ü ìx ë æ· ü ë3 û  è &Bê ` í è¯W êp ë ñ¯u ê íS³æ·ü³ü¹ ù ä¯íü6 ë t  ¯ èS ñ æ ³ö& ù T 9 !   üS è¥ I  ñ è(  ` ë è& !ED ëx è ñ &x ê üx ë é³ä¯ ùW êx ëp í ñ è û é ä9$ å è· ü ö³éu ù í  è³  D p ¯  9  ¡ª2 (  è &¢ ê ³é¢ ù 8  è¯u ê ³í³ù¢ ü $ ù  è &BU ê & ·ê2 ù 7 ô  è ö¯ ë íx í è5$ ç  èB & ê3¯ äê ë é³$ h ù êéu è` í¯ è ñS`  í³Ã ù é·äx ùW ê ë ¯ ç ñ ä« ø ³é ù  è & ê³ü ü$ ë í¨ ë  ê é¯ è ê 3 è 5 è çu äí p ü  ¯  è ñ U ë $  í É ù &) å  ù & ô5l £  ¯ è  ñ æ  ö · ù  T ³ x é ù Ä 8  è¯W ê p ë ñ ¯ ê u í S æ ³ · ü ü ³ ù  í   ù í ³ ù  & 6 5 ä x ê í¯ ò íx ë êS ö ·éù öS ë é ë5 ç é³Ì ùp í ñ¯ èS í æ²S í 1 ü è~ &  ò ä ·äx ü êª æ { d  ø3 ä @  êÖ³ ù ³ü ù ì ë 1 !  D è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç ü  èxñ ö é· S ù D ëx è ñ & ê S è5 & 6  !  w  î  w  î  Vw îj  yw u ò íx ë¦ ê  ö ³é ù ä ö éä è & êØ ø ä Ã   üS è I S $  ¤   W    s ¶ j  ª ( 1  S  9 ° 6 ñ   ä  p  p  s  9  ¯    9    7 0 ( è S &Ã ê é ³ ù  è  ö ëxí é ë8  ø ä6x í íx è ñ öx ä ñ   èB &¢ ê S è ·éù5x ç ñ¯ è ê èx  ¯ ä6 ê íp ñ¯ èS í¨ æ í W ô ä³ü³ ü ëÂ7   é ë ©S  í è5& ç üS ë ³é ù ³ö¯ ù ñ6 ä èS& Ì ê ø3 ä   ¡°   ¨ 9p  9Ä  ¹ ¿  è &BÅ ê B &Ö ê2 ù  ô  ñ è(   ë èS& ë  ê ¯ è ê é ä± å ¯ ò í ëpº ê  èB & ê  í è¯ û ñu è` í¯ è ñS &  êx äÉ ì í ù5 & 6 8 !  ñ èB &9 ê èö¯ äê § í è7  ³ æ ü9S å ³é# ù ê é è·³ù9 üØ å  è &B ê î è ö¯ ëx í í5 è çªª ë ¯ ä ê ü  ¯ èª ñ ¯ ä ê ê é ·è³ù9 ü å³üù ë ç  x 8 è¡   æ¯ ä ñ¤ ö íùÅ íu ò íx ë¤ ê  ê éx èx ñ ñ æ9¬ å x äw ê  ö ³é¯ ùW ê ë üx è± ñ é³ä¯ ù ê5 ë x ç ñ«ä ø é·ù `  ê é   ë ù · ü S  ç9 ~ ä å n © ¨ q  õ ÷ Å õ 3 ë 7 í  è ¯ í S ¢ æ é  ä u í p  ñ è D  ¤ ~ ë  é è  & ðÌ ! S  ¤   W Ö   D ¶ n  7 ( W êS ëB &7 ê x è ñ¯ æS í é3 è ¯ ä¦ êp í ñ¯ èS í æ²` í¯ è ³ñ ù æP Ix è¦ ñ ê é3 è  ç è öS ë é ë ç¯ ò í ë6  9° 7   éº ë 9p D  ¯ 9  97) (  î  ¡°   ¨ x  9Ä  ¿ ( X  èQ  · æ üS å ·é ù u è` í è5 & 6 !  í¯ ò íx ë& ê ø ä !S é·äùxW êx ë íx ñ è û é ä å ö é· ù ä ö éÇ ä é½ ë ¯ ä ê ` íu èS í éx ä  íx èº ñ èx ñ¦ ë  í  ç¯ è ·êù è x ñx æ êWS ë éÅ · è ü$  çä95 å  è & êÌ ø6 ä ¯ èS í æ ë å èDª ì  í ³è ü¯ æ5 ñ  èB & ê ·ü ü3 ë  èx é I% è 9 ù ë  Ê ç &)³ å S ù &£½ ô ö S é · ù x ê p  å ù    x è ñ  x  ñ« ä ø 5 S ü æ « ø 9 è ¯ í S Ç æ  ñ è  û Â è ¯ ñ  ë  è 3 ç  ä' ä² x ê è³ ü ³ìu ùx í íD ä  x è# ì ê ä$ é Y  ë# ç Öê& ù í¯ è í ë¦ å5 è  ç¯ ä5 í é·$ ù Q   é ë ñ¯ è íSB æ è& ê ü³ ! x í ê  é  è · ù ³ ü 9 å y ü ³ ù  ë  ç Ø q ê í  ä 3 ç    G ì   8 è 0  ù é  ö  ä 9 å ` ¯ è ñ 8 è ¯ ñ  ë U & ) å ù  & ô¦x £ í ñ  è   ` ( ë è&   é ä¹Dë³äüª è û·x ù Öê ù é ö ä å S è &¦ ê í¯ è í` ë¯ è ñS å é·Ø ù ` í ·èS ü¯ æ ñ ¯ è í èB & ê6S ö ·é ùx é I% è  ù å  è D § Ê í ¨ q õ ÷ ¤ õ v 7 é ë y  T¥3 ú S í B ñ ë    7 é ë p ê q í 2 ü ³ ù  ë  ç  è  & 6 5  &    ê æBH  G S ! u ò íx ë¨ ê  è é7 ä x í ê é¯ è íx è ñ x è8 ñ  ñ è  ü «ä¨ ø  è é ä6¯ è ñ è£ & x ô îp í ñ è  ü «äø  øÖ è &  ê ø ä è é2 ä ¯ ä ê é³s ù í è ö¯ ëx í í è52 ç  ö é³5 ù ç äS å ·éù²·èS ü I 1³ü ü ë ³åx ùW ê ë çx ä ê æë ý "¤ u |y S ~¥ q ¢ I q % $ § u ¦ ÊY t i # ä x ê` í ·è üx æ7 ñ ¯ è íS è & ê èSS é% I è$  Y   ë Ì ç íp ñ¯ è7 í F E( ! è ö¯ ëx í í è5¨ ç Q ë ø5 ä F  F  äxì ! S  í é ·äx ùW ê ëx·êù5·ç³ùü è &  ê é³² ù ê é¯ è íx è ñ  íSB  ñ¦ ä ô   è ò 7 éB ë p ê` åq èF 2  ì¯ æ í` î ñ èQ   é¯ è í8 èB & ê5 éä ù S è & ê 7 é ë  í è S ) & å ë  ä x ñ   ( ¡  6 ë è ¯  í è  B &2 ê í x í S æ 9 å x í  ù   W ô ä  é 6 è ¦ ð !   í ò u íx ëê  u 8 è íS ë ì8í è ö¯ ëx í í è5É ç  øÖ¯ ù¯ í í³ëüÄ å ·ü ü ë å¯ ùW ê ë ç¯ ä ê æÃ ë &)å ù£ & $ ô ` í è·S ü¯ æ ñ ñ³ñ ä íp & ñ èü«ä7 ø x ä ê ³éy ù` í è ö¯ ë íx í è5 ç  øÖ¯ ùx í íëü9$ å 1³ü ü ë ³åùxW ê ë  ç äx ê æ ë#` í ·è ü æxñ èS  é I% è x ä êIp í ñ¯ è íS& æí W ô ·ä³ü ü ë ¯ ä ³íü ëj ê& ÷ ! S í(   ëx è ñB &7 ê x ä ê ³é& ù í è ö¯ ë íx í è5ç  è í èB & ê²y î  x è ñ è ö ö·x ù ñ¯ ê  é è& ± ð j ! !x å êB è ` î ñ è7   é¯ èí  î9 ê åq è 2F ì æ¯µ í  ö è   ¡ æ¯ ä ñ¨ ö ¯ äê  é ³ä¯ ù ê Dä  é ëU& ·ê2 ù Ì ô íp ñ¯ èS íÌ æ` í è  ùW ûx ä ñp  ê· ù` î ñ è ûB è W ôä D ¯   ü è S I£³ ü ù  ë  ç  © 5  è í S æ  ä ³ ù x ñ  ë W û 8 ø  ä 5 í  è  ³ æ ü  ë W û w é  ä Â  u 8 è í  ë S ì º  ¯ 8 è ñ  è  ö  ö ³ ù x ñê ¯  ! ¯ ê ñ äD¡  ¡  ¯ æ¦ í é·äx ùW ê ë ö ·è ü èR  ¯ ò íp ë ê  ñ ä  ê é5 è ç è öS ë é ë çÅ¯ ò íp ë ê¤G   é ë íS è ì  é ëå ) &³ åS ù£ & Ì ô í ³è üx æ2 ñ ¯ è êx ë ñ è é èE ö ¯ ä ê²³í3 ù ) & å ë¯ äS ñ ¡  B ë ñëü æ(  D ä  è ûS ë&  ê äS é  í è ä j ê÷  !x í íx è ñF    H ¨  ò ä ·äx ü ê æªd ê ø¯ ä íx ä ñ9å¤ ù õ D ñ  è  & ê  ä é " !E)  ñ ë    Q é ë x ê u $ í ü · ù  ë   ç  w  8 y  T ½ ú · é ù ¬    è é S I   è    îê é è³³ùü95 å ü· ù5 ë çj% ©Õ è   ¯ èS íÇ æ  ü è 2 ù ôÇB  ñ èÂ û  è éÉ ä  ñ è ¯ ùS í éä  ñ è    D ë  è &  è &Ô B ê   7 é ë  í x ñ   è (` ë è  &     î   w ¨ õq¤ A ÷ õ è   ³ 7 æ ü 9 S å é ³ ù S ! ¯ ò í ëp¦ ê  Sx ¶S ¨ ¶ x ä ê ·é¢ ù   S è 1I¯ ù¯ í í³ë ü å ³íU ù  ü èS5 I 9 ê åq èF 2  ì¯ æ í ípêÖù íp í  ñ  è D ë è  & u  è ` í è  5 & 6¥ !  í ò u í  ë x ê  ä x ê  é ³ 2 ù í ` è  ö  ë x í x í  è 5 ç & ü ³ ù  ë  ç j % © èU Ö ø ù ¯ í x í  ë  ü 9 å ³éùC B` ¶ ¹  «¥Ê   W © · I  «Ë@A ö ³é ù é³ ùx ë ê é ä9¹ å è öx ë¯ í` í3 è ¦ ç ü· ù ë ç ©º è  éë p ä ê 2 p í ñ   è D ë è  & ³ 9 ü ù  ë  ç j ©%Ì è ø  ä E è u í x æ E è  ò  ë 5 ç Ø í ` è  & ) å ë  ä ¯ ñ S   ¡  ª ë ê  é  è ¯ ñ x ñ  æ  î³è ü $ ç ë %3 è  èW û äD ì ë  èB &Ä ê én3 ÷ E !   üS èW I p ê` åq èF 2  ì¯ æ¦ í ø ä ` í è ³æ üW ë5 û è& ê x éµ ä 8  u è íS ë ì ü³ ù ë Ã ç  ö ·é5 ù çä9S å é³º ù  ·øu ùx í í ë9 ü åµü³ ü ë å¯ ù ê ë  ç¯ ä ê æ ëh¯ äê ¤ |¥ I q  © Ì ¡   ª ~ ¦¨§ ¦ v z }ÿ7 q ~~ ¤ ¥ é ³ä¯  ù ê¯ ëp í ñ è û éä9I å ³ü ù ë j ç ©%U è  é ë¤³é¦ ù` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è ¢ ç ( ëx è ñB &6 ê x ä¢ ê   ¯ èS í æ ü é5 ä 5 ç  ç ä8 å x è ñ ë  üD äU ì ³éù é2W ô ä &2 í  í  üS èI  è5 &  6 8 ! ê é ³èù· üs å ³ü ù ë çj% © èØ ê é ë·ù ü $ ç ä9ån © ¨ q õ ÷¤5 õ 5 ë ö³éu ùS í2 æ  ê é¯ è í  è öx ëx í í5 è  ç£ ¢ 1 ü  ¯ è ñ¡    ë ø ä ³è ü$   ç ë% U è é  " D X   èx ñ æ ·ö ùT

%å ë û³x ù ñ£   ñ «äU ø  é è¡  S ù&

è x ñ2 ë  êS ä§ & ínF ©  é è¯ è ñ¯ åE í S è &I ê øB ä x í¯ ê ñ ë ! ' 2 õ h 6 @ ¨U ÷ é·Ø ù  íD   ëx è ñ& ê é³äù¯W êx ë íp ñ è û é ä  QéØ ë íu ò í& ë 6 X  x è ñ æ ·ö ùT

!` í¯ èS ñ¯ æW ê` ë «è ø u è` í è && ê øU ä  é ³ä¯ ù ê ëS é ë üF  %è  è·ü³ 8 ùp ë ê9 è $ë ê é¯ è íx è ñ W ô ä$ é ¦ è # ð !  í ö ·éx ù ê9 è3 è $ ç x èW ê ë¯ ù ·ê ù é³¦ ùp í ñ¯ è íSæ   ü èSP & x ä ê½   èQ  · æ üS å ·éùÂ¯ ä í³ ü ëÅí³ù)  ñ ë 02 ù ¤ ô u ê ñx ä7  ¡  u æ í S ö é·x ù ê9 è è5ç "  ! í¯ ò íx ëÕ ê ¯ è í èB &µ ê  øÊ ä  è é ä¸x ä ê³é ù  í è ö¯ ëx í í5 è Ô ç  ·øu ùx í í ëü9å 1 ³ ü ü ë³åx ù êW ë  çx ä ê æÑ ë ¯ ä¾ ê @ Ö ê ù³·üS ù ì ëÇ è &ê 7   é ëÂ í¯ ò í ëpÕ ê S ö ·é ùx é I% è ñ «ä¤  ø  í ¯ ç í³S ù é ëS) &` å3 è  ç  ö é³ ù7  ³ æ ü9S å é³Å ù  ê é5 è  ç è öS ë éë5± ç ¯ ò í ëp½ ê 7   éë é ³ä¯  ù ê ë ö è· ü è u ò íx ëÉ ê x í¯ ê ñD ä¡  ¡  ¯ æí ' 2 õ h 6 @ ¨÷  !  ñ¯ è¯ ê ñ¯ ä3 í ³ü ù ë j ç ©%è êé è ö³·ù³üüx è ê é³¦ ù  è &7 ê îY    î n w í5 ç ·è ù  éD ä¡  U æ  í ·ü ùS æ ì ' 2 õ p 6 @ ¨÷  çx èq ê í'  ê é5 è  ç è öx ë éÅ ë õµ¯ ò í ë6 7   é ë ³ü ù ë j ç ©c ¨  ê é è ö·³ùü³ ü¯ è ê én÷ #þ ¦

© ¨  § g

!· ü ù ¡ëQ ø ü·³ü2 ù  ô   ¡°9   ¨ p  pÄ  ¿  é¤ ä   ¯ è í ëS¢ ì  ö ³é ù(  ` ë¯ è ñB &D ê î í`u è í ë å6¯ è íS è &Å ê én÷8( ! è öx ë¯ í` í è5U ç ü  ¯ èñ ë¦ ø¸ ä  ü èSI p ê åq è¡ 2  ìu æÇ í  èB &ê x äê p ¢ Æ`¯  @  ¡  Dw ë x í ê é è³·ù üÇ å è& ê øh  ä è5 çä' ( !  è ö¯ ëx í í5 è w ç  ë ¯ ä¬ ê 1S ü x èÂ ñ x äU ê  í¯ è í ä ä) & åÅ ñu è íSÂ æ ë é è£ & $ ô íp ñ è D ë è& ¨ q õ ÷¤õ è¯ û ñu è` í¯ è ñ $ êS ä¦ é ü³·ü2 ù B ô ³ü ù ë É ç ü  ¯ èñ è &Ø  ê  îu è í ëU å í³ ùB & ê énÇ ÷  ! ê é ³ë³ù ü $ ç äj å ©¨ q õ¤ ÷ U õ  ê ä é í¢ ù  ê é ·è³ùü9å ü· ù5 ë çj% © è í! ¢ ñ¯ èS í$ æ  èB & ê ¯ è ñ è£ & 2 ô í ôW³ä·üü«äø¾ ç ³è ü ì¯ ä ñr   üS ëS éI " !  Q ö ³éu ù íx³íù5ç è x ñ6 ë  í üS èC I ¯ è í èB &Ã ê  é è£ & ¦ ô ü· ù ¡ëÌ ø ü³·ü2 ù E ô  í¯ ò íp ë ê ¯ ä ê ³é ù  í è ö¯ ë íx í è5ç Ö ø¯ ùx í í ëü9µ å x ä ê  í  üS èI u è` í è & êÂ éÂ ä  üx è ñ ) & å³ ù£ & 5 ô ` í è) & å ë¯ ä ñS¡   " !9 èx û ñ¯ è íx è ñn   ê äv é ¯ è ñ¤ ë  y  T  ú 7 éÒ ë ¨Rq õ¤ ÷ õ  í  üS èI ñ èD  ë è &3 è & ê  é è5 & { 6 r !  é ³ä¯ ùW êx ë íp ñ è û é ä9¨ å  ö ³éù ä ö é ä  é3 ë x ä¨ ê ü  ¯ èñ

2 ë í ë è öx ë¯ í` í è5U ç & í èx«ñ3 ø  ë  ö ³éùu íx ä$  ç ä¢ å G  ì2 í¢ ù  é ·äx ùW ê ëx å VIù¯x í í ë9 üå ò íx u ëU ê u ê ñ è û ì¯ æ í½ é ë å íx ñu èx íÅ æ W êS ëB &w ê Y  ëB ô  ñS è & êS ä éÄ ë 9 êÌ è¥ ! é· 9 ä ùxW ê ë x ç ñ «äø³é¹ ù 8  ¯ è ³ñ ù æP I èxñ è & êhQ S  éSR I äx$ ê ` í è öx ë íx í è5µ ç ) &S å¯ æ2 í ·ü ü ëµ( & S ö æx ä ñ &Ä ê  ä¦ ö ¯ äê  è ûS ë&   ü æB ä º ô  S è &Ã ê  ¤³è ü ì ëü· ùW ë ûº ë 1³ü ù (` ë¯ è ñ  ê ä3 é ³íh ù ¯ ò íp ë¹ ê  è éÃ ä ¯ äê  ö ³é¯ ù ê ³ë ü¯ èÃ ñ  é ³ä¯ ù ê ë¯ ç ñ«äø·éùS è & ê5¯ è íS æ ë åD èE ì  ñ¯ èS í æ èB &Ä ê  é¦ ä (   ë ³äü è ³û¯  ù ·êù é ö ä9¢ å è& êª í¯ è í` ë¯ è ñ åS³é$ ù ³íùS5 & 6 !aò¯ íp ë¦ ê  é5 ä ç5 ç9 ä å Å ë x ä ê ³éù  ç èB &¢ ê  íS è I1u ùx í íë9 ü8 å y î é ³ä¯ ù ê ë¯p í ñ è û é9 äh å è5 çx ëº í èB &w ê ä¯Â ê ö é ³ä üD èì í ` è öx ëx í í5 è ¦ ç è¯ íS è &ê S ö ·éù5 ç¯ æ í¯ í ë î çx èq ê í  í ê é5 è  ç è ö ëS é ë $ ç u ò íx ëê è5 & 6  ! x í êø·¯ ù ñ å ù (x äÂ ê  è &6 ê  î` í è ³û ü ä û è é·äùxW êx ë íx ñ è û é äw å S è &ê í ë  ê æÊ ì ³åS ù (¯ äê Ô ë ö·é¯ ùx í íS9 æx å ³í ù ¯ ê ñp ëq êí Y   ë ç  é ·äùxW êx ë íx ñ èû F ©  é ä9 å èB &¨ ê  î 1³ü ü ë¯ ù ·ê ù én» ÷  ! S í é ä·x ùW ê ëxx í ñ è û é äÕ å ³éÉ ù p í êÖøx ù ñ çx ä «ñø í èuíù¯ ` ñë  ç ·èü ì¯ ä ñS£   î ê éx è ñ ès£¢ ùt  ê æØ ì Q î8  è¯W ê ë ü èx¹ ñ  ñ è&  ê äé " ! è ( öx ë¯ í` í5 è $ ç  è & êU³é¹ ù 8  u è íxS í æ9x å í ù£   íu ò í ëx ê èB && ê ø ä¢) & å ë è2 ñ è7   éæ ·êùÂ  S è I1¯ ù¯ í í³ë üÄ å  è ûS ë5 & î1  üxp ê å èxx ñ ñ ä9å y î ü æ ä &U í ·êÅ ù ¯ è ñ è &£Â ô u ò íx ëê è é6 ä  ê ëS& 6 ê  ñ èQ   éæ  è ö¯ ë íx í è5U ç è& E ê  íS è 1I¯ ù í¯ í ³ë ü3 å ·ê7 ù Öøù  ç è¯u ê í í ê  é5 è  ç è öS ë é ë h ç u ò íx ë¤ ê ë ñ «äE ø  í  ç ³è ü ì ä¯ ñ   í èS å æF  äx¯ ñ ê ·é3 ù íù5 & 6 ! ³ ( å ùS(  ¯ ä ê ) & å ë8 è  ñ «ä$ ø S è éE ä èxW êp ë ñS ë  u èí  ë ¡    í è öx ë¯ í` í è5¨ ç ³èü1ùxÖêS ü¨ æ ç ö³é ù7   é èuh í  ù ä ûÉ ë x ä ê è ö¯ ë íx í è5² ç ³ü ù ë çj% © è¢· è ü ö·é¯ ùÄ í Â ë ·é¨ ù  íu ò íx ëê ³èü¯ ù ·ê ü¨ æ # ç ê æx ä ìy ëS í é ä³¯ ù ê¯ ëp í ñ è û é9 äB å  è ûS ë3 & ¯ ä¨ ê 7   é èxy êp í ñ¯ è7 í E !  E  èxV I ù¯¯ í í³ë ü å 1üxp ê` å è¯x ñ ñ äS å ·é$ ù D èì Y   ë ç è  ö¯ ë íx í è53 ç  è &¨ ê è9S å é è æP I¯ èS í é ä¢ å  ë íªW " D !  è ö ë¯x í í5 è ¤ ç ü  x è6 ñ S è &ê ³é$ ù   ¡°   ¨ p  pÄ  ¿5 è &Bê  èx û ñ¯ è íx è ñ9  ³ ü ü³2 ù $ ô ¯ è ñx æW ê` ë «è ø 1S ü  èx3 ñ S ö ·é¯ ùS íæ î` ñ¯ èS í æ5U ë b  ì8  u èx í2 æ ³íª ù ê é ·è³ùü9& å ·üùë5j ç% ©è  ê é³ë³ùü$   ç äj å © ¨ q õ¤ ÷  õ ë

ê åq èF 2  ì¯ æí  è &5 6 E !   üS èI9 ê åq è 2F ì¯ æE í  ö ³éu ù íx& æ` í è ö¯ ë íx í5 è  ç  ö ³é3 ù  ç9 äS å ³éù ! x  í ê é5 è ³ç¯ ù ñx èF  % è ¯ è í èB && ê øØ ä x í ·ê ü¯ æ íx è¹ ñ 7   é ë¤¡  ¯ æ êu èí 9 ù¯ í í³ë üh å ¯ ä3 ê ív ù F ä &B9 ê è5B ç  î ê éx è ñ ès£¢ ùc  ê æ² ìy î  ¯ è ê ³ë ü è¯Ô ñ " üx ë êé3 è ç³x ù ñD èG   $ è  è & êØ ê é¯ è íx è ñ W ô ä$ é É è  ð ! 5 í çS& ·ê¯ ù ñ ä ö³ ü ë¤ é ³ä¯ ù ê  Öø¯ !( è ö¯ ë íx í è5¢ ç    è) &p åW ê ë$ ç èB & êB íë ©   ë åx1I¯ ù¯ í í³ë üÄ å  é ä  ¡ !  é· äx ùp ê å¯ èÉ í é³Å ù 8  x è ì³x ù ñ9x å í è  S í é·äx ù êWp ë êÖù5³çù·ü ò íx u ë ê è5 ç¯ ë í è &Ä ê ¯ ä ê ³éh ù   S è I1¯ ù í¯ í ³ëü3 å íù  è öx ë í¯` í3 è É ç  ö ³é3 ù  ç9 äS å ³éù  øÃ ä èS å é ëx å IVS ù é ö³u ùº í  èB &¦ ê  è ·éù5x ç ñx è9 ê è x ä¹ ê í¯ ù í  üx ë é¤ ë  ñ¯ è íSj æ ©DG  ì è & êsQ î7  éS æ «ä8 ø íÄ ù ) &x å ê ë ç¹¦ ëj ø$ ÷  !  í è ö ëx¯ í` í5 è ¤ ç   x èW ê ë üx è ñb © ò¯ í ëx² ê øä © ñ¯ èS í æªë8S ö ·éù ä    è· û ü ä û é³7 ù ¯ ä ³í ü ëj ê& ÷ ! í  çB & êÖx ù ñ ä·ö üª ë  ö é³ ùD   ëx è ñ& ê S üS èx I   ¡°9   ¨  pp Ä   ¿  øÉ ä è³æ ü ëW¦ û  è &¹ ê q êS í ³é ù ë ö ë    è) &p åW ê ë¹ ç íù   7 é ëh é ä³¯ ùW ê ëx å 1Iu ùx í í ëü9E å x í æ ³ä¯ ù ñ ë2 û  ø8 ä ³ü ü ë åx èÃ ñ 7 é ëh é ä³¯ ù í³ ù åx è ñ   öx ëx í í5 è w ç  ô è$ é y ë ø ä î í  üS è Ix  ¤W  s j ¶ª  1(S p  °Ø ñ# äp p s 9  ¯ 9  7  ( %  åp ë ñ æ å åU ë  è & êÄ ö é³¯ ù ñ¯ æ í` ë è5Ã ç   è³ û ü ä û ·é3 ù êjÉ ÷  !  í(  ` ë¯ èS ñ &Å ê x ä ê é·ù îè øU ä  è æ³ ü ëW¢ û S è & êS î ö é³¯ ù¯ í` í è9 å¯ äS ñ  © ¯ è ñC   ñ è¯êø e "  !  êS äÉ é ä~  p í ñ è &B êä í ` è ö¯ ëx í í5 è ¸ ç   ¯ è ê ë³ ü¯ è¸ ñ u ò íx ë¸ ê ¡   æx ä ñÑ ö x ä¾ ê @ · ê ·ùü³ ù ì ë x í ·ê! ù 7 éë  ù &£¹ ô í ü èxI u è` í è & ê øä  íS è æ· ü ëÄ û  è &v ê 7  é æ¯ ä ñ ë8 7   éë ¢ í ñ x è ü«äh ø 7 é5 ë  í¯ ò íp ëÄ ê x ä ê ·éù6 í è öx ë¯ í` í3 è çØ³ü ù ë çj% ©h è  ·øu ùx í í ëü9Ã å ¯ ä ê ³èü·S ê ¯ ñ¯ èS í ³éI ùp í ê é è·³ù9 üB å 5 è  ç ä¯² íu èx í æ ë` åx è ì 8   èW û5 ä  çx è ñÌx è ñ& ë £¤7   éº ë 8î ¢ @êÖ³ ù ³ü ù ì ë8x í ·ê¤ ù ·é ù 8  ¯ èS ñu æ í ë è52 ç  íØ ë ô ' 2 õ p 6 @ ¨# ÷ øä x í í è åS å¯ æ¨ í  è5 & 6 î ¡ p í ñ¯ è ê9 åp ë ñS ë) &# å üë9 ù` åx è' 7 !  ö ³é ù) &p å êW ë E ç x è ñ«ä9 øD è ì   è¯x í í9 è å äx ñ v # ¨  |}ÿ#  q t ¦7y ~` q ¦ ©# ÿ @  ¡ ¦  } § ¤ u  l ©¯ èS ñ ¯ è ñ ë í  üS èx I u è` í è &E ê øU ä  í è ³æ üW ë¦ û  è &ª ê  îp í ê é ³è·ù ü8 å ³ü ù ë j ç% ©è ³é ù  í ³è9 ùS å é¯ è êu³í¯ ùS í é äS å ³é$ ù  ñ «ä8 ø  ñ èxW ê ë¤ å & ä 6  ! S í é³äù¯ ê¯ ëp í ñ è û é9 ä¤ å x ä ê ³éù í è öx ëx í í5 è Ì ç ³ü ù ë ç © è ö é· ù  ·øu ùx í í ë9 ü6 å ñ«äÃ ø F äB &9 ê5 è ç·èS ü ìS ë ³æ üW ë û ë !  Q ö é·x ù9 ê è3 è $ ç S è &I ê ø ä u è íx äB  ñ æ ` è  ùW û¯ ä ñR  x í ñ è (` ë è& R ¨ q õ¤ ÷ º õ x  ¤W  Dn ¶7  1(x p ° Q   éÅ ë p p s 9  ¯  è &x  ê ø¨ ä é·äx ù ê ¯ ù ñ¯ å` í èW   ë í ë3) &x åu æ í î  ç è &8 ê ¯ äE ê    è  ùW û¯ äS ñ  èD ì ¯ äê   ¡ª  (HW î  ¡°9   ¨  p9 Å   ¿  î 17 !   é ³ä¯ ù9 ê å è ' ³éw ù   D è ·ìùx9 ñ åx í èc  7 í "  é ä·x ù êW ë ¯ ç ñ«ä ø ³éùî¯ è ·ê ù û é³¨ ù x ä ê è³ ü(   äx èb   î è åë ü(  y î é·äx ùW êp ë ñ æF  î5 è ³ç¯ ùê p  !  í¯ ò í ëp¦ ê ê é¯ èx ñ ñ9 æx å é9 ä¢ å b   é ë U ç ³éù 8   è ³û ü ä û ³éù è &Ø  ê Q X  ö ·éx ù ê9 è è3¹ ç ² ë øª ä x í ê é5 è  ç ·è ü è B  ñ ë7   ép ëq ê3 í  è &ê x í ñ è u ùS í é9 äå è¦ ì Y  5 ë çU³è ü(   äx è  íµ ë 8  ¯ è ê·5 ù ç·³ù¢ ü x è êÖS ù æ I%íº ù F ä & ê è56 ç íùB & ê2 øä ñ¯ ä ê ë³x ù ÖêS ù é·3 ù  ö ³é¯ ù9 ê è è5ª ç  èB &¦ ê êS ë &² ê íx è ñ¯ æ íS éB è í ù5 &  6 j !  x è ñ æ ³ö ù T D   ä¯ åw í è& ¨ ê  î ñ è û¦ è ôW7 ä D a ! ¯ ò íp ë êÊ ë ·é ù    è ³û ü ä û ·éÂ ù ·èS ü ( äD è u ò íx ëÂ ê  ö é³·ùS ü æ   è &)x å í  ö ³é¯ ù ê9 è è5¦ ç èS&  ê  ñ «ä¬ ø )  ñ ë 02 ù ¦ ô 9 è å¡ë¯ ø ñx è ê é·ù èD( èS& ² ê øä5 è é ä  ç¯ ä «ñ ø í¨ ù  è ö ëx¯ í` í5 è  ç ü· ù5 ë çj% ©¦ è  é ë2·øù3S è ·é5 ù x ç ñ è¯ ê è  è0· 8 ù ü ë³ ù åD è§ í  ë  í è  ùW ûx ä ñ 9 è å¡ë¯ ø ñx è ê·éù ' 2 õ 6h@ ¨Ç ÷ S è5 & 6 üp ò å ù æI ¯ äº ê   ¯ èS íµ æ  é è &6 ê íù3j êÃ ÷ E ! 8  ¯ è ñ¯ ä êu5 í ³íÃ ù ¯ ò í ëx3 ê W êx ë &º ê ³éù !E% ³ è ü $ ç ä2 å u ê í ä5$ ç  èB &¢ ê 7 é ë ö ³é¯ ùu ê íx è ñx è êé³2 ù q ê í ä5$ ç è& ê 1   è û· ü ä û ·éù5³è ü(   äx è  ø$ ä u ê ³í³ùU ü & ëQ î8  ¯ èW ê ë¯ ù ·êù³é ù ³íÄ ù u ò í ëx¹ ê Ã ë  é è& ð 1üSé· ùx ë¯ ê ñ9 è å í# ù ·ê ùY  yt w  éS è ·é ù ò ò ë` 6 bE ì   x è ñ ³ä üF  %  è& í¯ ò í ëpI ê ñ èux í æS øä  !  è ö ëxx í í5 è 5 ç è3 ç¯ ë¢ í è& B ê ø$ ä ¯ ê ñ ëSC  x è ñ ë¦  èB &Ä ê F  ä ä &·ù ü è ³ò·ù ü S è &ê íD èb  @B ê ê éx è ñs è ¢£ ù  ç¯ äS ñ{ T  ! S í é³ä¯ ù ê ë 0 ù é ë¯ ö ñ¹ ä é³x ù ³ü ù ë çj% © è6 ö é·¯ ù íSæ D ñx è êW` ë¯ è ñÂ ö S è &$ ê  î í è öx ë í¯` í è3 ç ¦ äq ôê  év ä ·è üD   äD èc   øÃ ä êu³í³ùv ü S è &ê  è§ 8 & í³ ù ü $ ç ä9 å å ëÌ í¯ ò íp ë¨ ê    è7 ò S è &Q ê ø7 ä  è é² ä ³íùp& ¢ ¨   x   6     ¨   é ä5ç5 ç ä åµx è ñä5v ç S è &56 D ! 9 èS å é è  ù ûè  øÄ ä  í9 èp å ñ æu ä íw è & ê¹ øä    p p ¥ 9 Ã  W êx ë &¢ ê   B è W ô ä &¨ í è û ëS¥ &  íu ò íx ë ê ø ä8` í ·è ùQ  ¯ æê '  !  íu ò íx ëê  è éØ ä  í ë¹ é ä·x ùW ê ëxx í ñ è û é äE å  è && ê øØ ä p íu ê ñS ë 5 ñ ³è·ùüx ñ` ëU è ³éù 8   è ³û ü ä û ³éù  øä ¯ í í³ëüÅ å  è éw ä  é¹ ä íS9 æ å «äÃ ø x äÂ ê    è 9 ù` å è ¦ èv ô  é ³ä¯ ù ê¯ ë íp ñ è û é9 äå  ü(   äx è  øv ä q ê íù·¬ ü  è &Ã ê ` íu èx íº æ j ê ÷ !( èS å é è ù û è  øÃ ä ` í9 èp å ñ æ ä¯í ä x ê é·& ù í è öx ë¯ í` í3 è ç8 ö ³é ù  Öø¯ ù¯ í í ë³ ü8 å x äy ê` í è) & å ë¯ ä ñS¡    Ø ë ¯ è êS ë ·æ üW ë û8 è I ä 6 è³ í æ·äx S ù ñW ëÂ û íx9 ê å ³èü· ü9 äå ' 2 õ h 6 @ ¨ ÷ y î é ä·x ùW ê ëxx í ñ è û é ä åÂ ñ ³ë ü æ ³åùxu ê ñS ë ¦ ÿ¡ |§ ¦ }Q9 q q § ë ¯ äµ ê í ö é ä· üx è ì è öx ë í¯` í5 è ç w ë  ñ è &B9 ê è£ & ôwp ê å ù8  è¯ ñ#  I ä6 v ÿ S ¦ ÿ¡ § ¥ Ê }2¤p`    { | ÿ@  ¡ ¦  } S |y ~qp    ¦  }Ì ~`   ¦H¦ ¤ © !  8 ñ è  ü «ä¢ ø   èxp ê å ù  èx ñ`  èB &3 ê ä¯ ê ·é¹ ù   x è êu ñu än í% © èx ñ ü·³ü¯ ùu ê í³íS ù ü· ù5 ë ² ç ñ èB & ê6 ä 7  éÌ ë ñ è & ê è öx äE ê  é ·äx ùW ê ëxx í ñ è û é ä å3) & å ës è øä !  8 ñ èBW ôx är   ü ë¯ ù ê éx è ê äD è5 çu ä2 í íS ë & êÖ ù î í èx å ñ æu ä$ í  è åS é è  ù ûè ¯ ê ñ ëS3  x è3 ì ¯ ä ê  ¯ è ê9³å ù  x è ñQ  ³ ü ù ë6 ç  ö é· ù å ëüG  î· ê¹ ù ³é ù & ·êù2¦ ô ³í³ü ù ë j ç% ©è  ø äU èS ö ép ë ñÄ ë  ø ä  è é3 ä íÌ ë î ñ è ûB è W ôä D  ! ¯ ê ñ ä &¤ í x èÃ ì x äº ê 7 é¯ è ê èS& $ ê p íu ê ñu äh í Y  D ä ì ³éùU è &h ê  é è5 & 6 9 !  é ·äx ùW ê ëxx í ñ è û é äÄ å 7 ë  ø3 ä u ê ñS ë ü·³ü2 ù 2 ô ` í ·è ùF  D ä ì  è öx ëx í í è5E ç è9x å ·é¯ ùy í ü ëp ñ è é è¤ ö é³ ù   x è êÖ5 ù ³ç·ù2 ü  ñ è & ê ëxñ x è ñB ë  í è ö ë¯x í í5 è çs³ü ù ë ç © 6 è S ö ·éù5 ç ä åS³é¢ ù ) & åù£ & 3 ô ö·éS ù§ & í ù æS ö ·éx ù êqí ù èx¤ ì Y   ë ¦ ç F   ä & ê3 è  ç í ù5 & 6$( ! è öx ë¯ í` í3 è ç5 èB &¦ ê ø$ ä ê é¯ è ê é ä å è& ê b  Ã ì í ùB &Ä ê S í7   éx è ê  è ' 2 õ p 6 @ ¨@ ÷ !EY  x ä ì³éùw è &É ê êu ñu än í% © èx ñ ¯ äê ä x ê ·éÌ ù ê( & ö³¯ ùS í é·6 ù G   é² ëx í2 æ  è ³û ùÌ ö ê äS$ é  ä   í)  ñB ä 2 ô u è` í è & ê í5 ë F  F  äxì í è·S ` ü æ¯Ô ñ 8  è9S å æQ  é·¸ ù 1³üü ë ³åx ùW ê ë çx ä ê æë è¯S í æÔ é ë½ å ·êù¬W êx ë & ê íù è &  ê ç¯ ä «ñøPx å ê& è î è &I ê î  ç& ëS î ë  í)  ñB ä Ã ô  é ä55 ç ç9 ä å5 èW û ä5 ç¯ èñ  è å ¡ë¯ ø ñ¯ è ê ³éùÂí5 ç ·èù½ èB &Å ê  øw ä êéè5 ç è³ üw è ê éx ë ê¯ ñD ä$  · ç! ù é " ä¢ x ê ¯ è íSØ æ ³íù u ê í·ù ü (  x äq ê± í  " !(¯ è í2 ù ¯ ô ñ è & ê ä8x è ñp ë ñ8¯ è ñ7 ë  ê æØ ì  íu ò íx ëê 8 ! ñS è & ê9 è ö äxê 8  èx¡  7 æx ä ñ ö è¯ ñØ ë  í è ö ë¯x í í5 è Q ç ³üù ë ç è & ê67    éØ ë è öx ë¯ í` í è52 ç  è & ê5³éù5 é ä55 ç  ç ä92 å x è ñ ë) & å ù£ & ô í ¯ ç ñ¯ è êD øä  ©# è üS ë é·äx ù êWx ë íx ñ è û é ä¹ å è& ² ê ü· ü¨ ë  í8 ë x í é³äù¯W ê ëxp í ñ è û é9 ä å øÉ ä p ò åp ë¯ ñê % S å é è æ IPx è «ñø5 è &¹ ê  ö ³é¯ ù ñ ëS$   ç ä9É å b  3 ì  è ö¯ ëx í í5 è  ç  ö ³é5 ù  ç ä9x å ·é¦ ù  éë   è è ò íp ñ¯ èS í æ ü è` & x ä3 ê   x è ê é è7  ³ é2 ù ¯ è ñ ë í è ö ëx¯ í` í3 è 6 ç 1S ü  èxñ è5 & 6 íS ` è 1Iu ùx í í ëü9åÅF   äB &9 ê è5ç í ù5 & 6 !D9 è åS é è  ù û# è ø$ ä 9 è åp ñ æ¯ ä& í üS ë é³ä¯ ù ·ê ù % ! !è5 çp ë ñ«ø² êD & ö·x ùñ  í (` ë¯ è ñB &E ê x ä ê ³éù8  x è¡  æ¯ ä ñ6 ö ¯ ò íp ë# ê B  S 9  @ ¯ äê G © (¨ ë  é ëI íÌ ë è öx ëx í í è5¦ çS è & ê ø ä F  F  äD² ì èB & ê èG 0   üS ë éª ë x ä ê   ¯ è íS& æ ³íù  ö ³é ù öS é ³ä üD è ì²` í è öx ë íx í è5s ç ·ü ù ë5çj% ©$ è S è &¦ êí W ô ä& 3 í ä¯³í ü8 ë  è å ¡ëø¯ ñx è ê ³éù ç & ·ê¯  ù ñ ä³ö üÄ ë é·äx ùW ê ëx å IV¯ ùx í í ë9 üE å  ê %¯ èÂ ê T q â ÷jr © £ T l 6 y ë î ³ü ü ëS³é ùT è5  & 6 S ! ¯ ò íx ë ê ë 7   éÃ ë  ñ è  ü «ä ø Õ ë  é èB è q ô9 êD èÂ ì è¯W ê ëù¯ ê é¯ è ñD è ¢ ù ! è ( öx ë¯ í` í3 è ¢ ç   S è) & åxW ê ë ç p í ñ¯ èS í æ  üS è & ä¯± ê 8  èF  ä9¦ å  ñ æ ³ä ü äµ å ¯ è ñÇ ë   èB &Ä ê  ê æÅ ì !5 è çp ë «ñø è &Ã  ê íë ¯ ò íx ëw ê è5 ç¯ ë¬ í S è &± ê ¯ ä ê ³éÊ ù   S è I1u ùx í íëü9µ å í³w ù  è ö¯ ë íx í è5ç ê ø ·èü  íp ñ è ü«äº ø ¯ ä¹ ê  ñ ë·üù5ç³u ù í  ñ` ë èx7  ¹ ë  í ò¯ íp ë ê2î  ¯ è ñ æ ·ö ù T ³éù ö é·ù5 S ç ä åS³é ù  è & ê y î 7 é æ «ä¦ ø íù ) &x å ê ë5½ ç Ñ ë  é èS& ð ! íp ñ¯ è9 ê å ë é2W ô ä &w í è å ¡ë¯ ø ñx è ê³éw ù  è &Õ ê én ÷ 8 !  ñ è  ü «ä ø  ë  øÊ ä  é ³ä¯ ù êS äÂ é S è &ê © ñx ë &)x å ü ëå³x ù9 ê èD ì ëS7 & 1  ü ëjF © é ä¹ é B &Ö ê2 ù ¨ ô  ö é ³ä ü5 ë   èW û5 ä  çx è¦ ñ í ùp ¢` Æ7  (  çx ä «ñ¨ ø ò¯ íp ë$ ê I ë ø ä¹ é ³ä¯ ù êS äª é èB &# ê íx èW êp ë ñS ë  u è2 í ·ê ù î íx ê é ³è³ù9 üØ å  ñ è &B êä   ö ·éùS) &x åW ê ë ç x è ñ «ä øx èÄ ì   ¯ è¯ í` í è9 åx ä ñ  ©¯ èS ñ x èÄ ì ¯ ä$ ê S í   è èS$ é  í  üS è I è·ò³ù üé E  !  í è5 çx ë6 é  ñ èü«äU ø  è &6 ê  ñ «ä¹ ø è éµ ä 7   é5 ë  ñ è  ü «ä3 ø W êx ë &ê êpåq è¡ 2  ìu æU í  øÂ ä  è ·æüW ëv û  èB &¨ ê  î íp ñ è D ë è& ¨ q õ¤ ÷ ¦ õ  íÉ ë S í é¯ ä í` ë¯ è ñ ³éùÒ ç¯ è ·êùÌ·ü ù ëÉ ç 8  è¯9 ê å ³è ü¯ èÄ í 1x ü ê é èx¯ ñ ñ æå  è & ê  ñ «äø5 è é& ä î ñ è  ü «äø 5 è  ç¯ ë5 í  ñ äSn T  !  í è öx ë¯ í` í3 è Ã ç 8  ¯ è ê ³ë ü¯ èj ñb © u ò íx ëê  ø ä6S í  ü èS I 9 ê åq èF 2 S ìu æí   x è êp` å ·è üu è íÂ1x ü ê é¯ èx ñ ñ æÉ å  èB & ê ñ«äø!W ô ä 7³éù2h ô  ë &BÖêù22 ô  î íx ê é ³è³ù9 üå è &&  êq êS í é³ ù ë öE ë 8   è &)x å ê ë & ç í² ù è öx ë¯ í` í5 è 7 ç  ö é³5 ù ç9 äx å ·éù6 éx ë øE ä  üS è I ü³ ù ë 3 ç G   é ëE ç ¯ ä êÌ ñ ëü·5 ù ³çu ùB í ³íù ' 2 õ h 6 @ ¨Q ÷ øä  è å ¡ëø¯ ñ èx ê ³éù è5 & 6

© § í è5 ç  è &56 9 !  é ·äx ù ê¯ æ ·ê¯ ùu êS í ³éº ù B  ñ ë¯ ù¯ ê ñ¯ èÉ ê ë³éù& ·ê2 ù 5 ô í ö ³é¯ ù ê è5 è ç  ø äÄíè³¯ ù ñu è¬ í w ë öS·é¯ ù í³S ù é ëöx ñ ä øº ä ·è ü¯ äv ñ  è &¬ ê  ò ä¯ ä± ê éu äp í ñ èD ë  ö ³é ù 0 ù é ë ö¯ ñ7 ä  øh ä ¯ ò í ëp¢ ê S è &Ã ê 8   è ³û ü ä û ³éùØ·ü ü ëU¯ è í è &56 ! ³ü ù ë j ç% ©è î1 ü ö é³ ùB  ñ9 ä å7 å  " ! í ö ³é¯ ù ê9 è è5y ç ø ä5é³ä¯ ù ê¯ ë í ù é ë¯ ö ñ7 ä  èB &2 ê  è ö ëS é ë ç  øÉ ä  é ä³¯ ùp ê` å è·³ü ü ä åÌ·üüëu ç íUB ë  ø3 ä è¯S í3 æ è ò ë5U ç ä¯3 ê ³è ü ì5 ë èx ñB è 3 ô ¦ è ð êD & · ö ù5¨ ç  ê é ëpq ê í¯ ù¯ í í¦ ë üx ë é¯ äx í ñx è  ¯ ê ñ ë ¯ çÄ í 5 ë êWS ëB &Ä ê Y  Ø ë ¹ ô  èB &2 ê  øä í¯ ù í  üx ë éë  ü ä å¯ ä êx ä ñ 7   é ëÂF  7x æq êh í ë$ ø ä ¯ ê ñ ëS  x è ñB è ô6` í è ö¯ ëí ÿ²¦ G © # ýu " ¨ ¦ I |q 9 8 u  } ÿ q t§7 ¦ y ~` q ¦  ë êW p ëC   ö ³é¯ ùu ê íx èU ê ·éùØ í¯ ò í ëx ê S è & ê ø äØí·ü ù ëx9 êª è Ì â( X $è³ ü ì ë6 y   ³ÆW n W  x ¤ &   è '         244 2   è ' & D    244 2  "      243 2  öSæ C   ëÅõ & y     D  244 2 Y   Å ë $ õ (     P 4 24 2 Y 2  Å ë õ 2    4 24 2 Y  Å ë õ 2   y 4 24 2 Y  Å ë õ 2    4 24 2 Y  ëÅ õ y    253 2 Y  ëÅ õ y  y    253 2 Y  ëÅõ       5 23 2 Y ë õ5      243 2  ñÅ  ñ "    244 2  2  ì èT 3 y  y   4 23 2  2 áW ß Û`áU1 0 )Þ áÛ '(¡  á á Û & ß¦ Û  © ¨ § ¦ ¥ ¡   à Û  ¡¤  ©   ß¦ Û  © ¨ § ¦ ¥  Þ  ß Û²  ¨©§ ¦ ¥ £á¢ ¤ è ' y  5 23 2  è '   5 23 2  öæ ~ "   4 24 2  é æ6 3 4 2 24  2  ëÅõ 3 253 2 Y 2 é æ7 6  y  4 2 24   Å ë 3 õ  5 23 2 Y  Å ë õ 2 5 23 2 Y  Å ë õ 2 5 23 2 Y ü æ7 6  4 24 2   ëÄ3 õ  5 23 2 Y ñÅ ë 3 õ    4 24 2  ñ " 2  244 2  ê8 å d  5 23 2 p à Û% ¡ Û$ # " ! ¨¨ Þ

ö ³é¯  ù ê è5 è 3 ç E ë ¯ è ê ë³x ù Öê ù ³é2 ù  ñ¯ èS í æ  ü è &$¯ ä¹ ê ) ñ ë 02 ù 5 ô  ö ³éù¯9 ê è è5± ç  " X¡ ¯ èS ñ æ³ö& ùT

ñS  è IV¯ ùx í í ëü  8  èuíS ëì @  ÷j©% è ö ëx¯ í` í è¤ õ øä %  åx ë ñ æ å åª"

XQW  ¯ è ñ æ·ö ùT

! è ( öx ë¯ í` í è5ç 1üS x è$ ñ  è && ê ø2 ä  í  üx è3 I S¤  s W  ¶jª  1(S p E ° ñ7 ä p p s  9¯   97  ( ·é6 ù è ö¯ ëx í í è5# ç üS ë ³éù³öx ù ñ5 ä  è &¦ ê øä   °¡   ¨ x  9Ä  7 ¿ èS& ª ê b  D  ä9# å ê ä¨ é  ù ê é ³è·ù ü å ü³ ù ë¦ ç è &² êu èS í æ ë` å èxì    ê æ äD ìB ë  í ëØ¦ ô í¯ ò í ëpê8u è` í è &¦ ê ñ«äx ø ·ü ü ë` å¯ è ñ  èB & ê²· ê üu æ` í¯ è6 ñ Ø ë 7 í " !ê é è³³ùü9Ø å ·ü ù ë5j ç ©%5 è ê é ë·ùS ü~  çä9Õ å ¨ q õ¤ ÷ õnF ©  é äÉ é ëµ8  u èx íÉ æ  7   éë  íu  ò í& ë 6n·é7 ù x y 7 éë  x í ñu èS í æ  íp ê éS ë 9 ù å¯ ù¯ ê ñ ëS~   èB &Ì ê ø ä¢¦ äq ôê î³è ü $ ç ë %$ è  ñ ä T$¡ ! ¡ !   é ä³¯ ùp ê` åu èh í ³éÄ ù 8  x è ³ìx ù9 ñx å í è`  S í é·äx ù êWp ë êÖù5³çù·ü  ø ä8 è æ p í è öx ë¯ í` í è3& ç ø¦ ä ê ·äü6ë 8  u èx í í³5 ù çØÖê¦ ù í² ë %   F !  ¤  1 ü éä  W ô ä³ ü  ñ èØ û  íØ ë s ô ·üü ë` å¯ è ñª è öp ë ñ è ûS ë îQ7   é ëS£ & ñS è & ê$ ä S è &¢ ê éªd  !  íu ò íx ë ê è³ ü ¯ ù ·ê ü¨ æ ç ä êv7 x   é äD§ ` í¯ è ñµ¯ äU ê è ö¯ ëx í í è57 ç ³ü ù ë çj% ©¤ è è³ ü ö ³é¯ ù íhº ë  ö é· ù ³ä ü$   çè í ñu x èS íµ æ ¯ ä¤ ê  è æ ¯ è ñ¦ è¹ ô  íx è ñ¯ æ ê ë «èø¤¯ è í è5 & 6 % !  ¯ ò íx ëw ê ³éù    7 é ë  ¯ ò íx ë ê±³éùh    x è IV¯ ù¯ í í ³ë ü¬ å ¯ üp ê` å¯ èx ñ ñ äS å é³¤ ù  ñ è ûÃ è ¯ è ñ¦ èô í ` è ö¯ ëx í í5 è 8 ç   üª é d !  í è öx ë¯ í` í3 è ¨ ç   S è I1¯ ù¯ í í ë³ ü åj ©¯ è ñ£  S è &S ê øØ ä è éä  ø ä5 üx è I5  ¡°   ¨  pp Ä  ¿5¯ ä¨ ê   x èx ñ ñ «èø9x è ñ í  üx è I S ¤W  ÖD  ¶n7  1(S9  °² ñä pp s  9¯   97  (x í ê· ù øÖ8 ù 1S ü é ä 7   é ëSÖøùÌ è öx ë¯ í` í5 è 2 ç  ë   S è I1u ùx í íë9 ü# å êÖI ù íë %   D Q !    D & · ö ùSC &  ñ è ûØ íØ ë Ñ ô  çB &Ö êx ù ñ ä·öüë í³S ù & ê ø¹ ä é·ä¯ ù íù9 åx è ñ è  öx ë ñ è ûë  è &5t 6 !E  x è ê éu è` í¯ è ñSW  í³ù S ç & ·ê¯ ù ñ ä ö³ üÃ ë  é ä³¯ ùW ê ëx å 1Iu ùx í í ëü9å  u 8 è íS ë2 ì  ñ è D ë è & © ¨Rq õ ÷¤õ Ì ë øä   å ëp ñ æ9 å åD ë îS`  x è ñ æ³ö ùT n é÷ !  E  x è êÖø ù &Ø í  íØ ë ¬ ô W ô äQ  é·2 ù ô u ê íx è ê è& ê  éë e 7  G  ìÄ8  u è í ëx è9 ñ åS³é ù  íØ ë $ ô ê9¯ è íÅ ö ³é ù ·éùx ëx ñ² ê ø ä  è 0u ùí  èB &8 ê  íë  è¯W 8 ê` ëx è  ¯ è# ñ íB ë  ôx í í è åx ä ñ   í ù5 & 4 6 ( ! è ö¯ ëx í í è55 ç &n ê !   © 2  è & ê6 éä êq` í¯ èê x äE ê è³ ü ì ë5èD¹ ì ¯ ä7 ê  ñ è ) ñÉ ä ·é# ù  2 1!!DV$ w ê9¯ è3 í  èB &¤ ê éÅ ä    è ³é ù ëp¯ ñê   7 é ë §¨¢ ¦ ¥ ¯ è í äS) &E å ¦ è5 ô ä ' !E8  ¯ è ñ è ) ñ3 ä 1ü³ ü ë ³åù ö ³äü ä é¯ ä ñ) &7 å ³íù £¤ 1 ! !DV w ` í è ö¯ ëx í í è5 ç ³ü ù ë çj% © è øI ä êuíù· ü î` í è öx ëx í í è5 ç ³ü ù ë çj% © è ü ëS é ³ä¯ ùê  © ¯ ëp í ñ è û é ä9 å  ø ä ¯ èS ñ¯ æ êWx ë¤ é  è &v ê  é è·ûù8£ ¢ D ! n   è 01¯ ù í8 øä W ô ä Q·é2 ù ô ö é·x S ùq ê` í¯ è êw8   è7  x I  ë 7   éÉ ë  è 0¯ ùÔ í W ô ä7  é·2 ù ôµ ö ·éS ù ·éùx ëx ñh ê  ö ³é ù B ñW ëû & êÖ2 B ù µ ô x è ê é5 è ç³è ü $·ç¨ ù  íØ ë ô6 ñ¯ èu ê í¯ è ê ¢ ôW äQ  · é ù É ð  ö é· ù ³ùü  ' " " ¨ |}n¥ u G ¤ I | q 5 f

 !p í ê éS ë ù9å¯ ù¯ ê ñS ë  ê( & ³ ö ùU è  é è¦ èq ô êx è¹ ì    è ö é ëS) & å 8 è èx ñB è ô í ` è öx ëx í í5 è ç 2£ y  ñ èW û ä îR  ¯ ò íp ë êU·é ù î íE ë x è ñ è &£ ô î íx ê éS ë 1 ù ³åùxu ê ñS ë ê  éx è ñs è ¢ ù~   è¯ èS ñ & êG  8 ì  ê éu è3 í ¯ è ñ¦ è ôª í è öx ë í¯` í3 è  ç ³ü ù ëç © 6 è  è è¯S ñ &ê ³ü ü6 ë 0¯ ò í ëpU ê n é ÷ ! x í ê é ëS1 ù ³åx ùu ê ñS ë   é è¦ èq ô êx èU ì  é ³ä¯ ù ê ë åù é¨ æ 5 ç  ç9 äå ø2  ä  ü ë è CW ê` ë¯ è ñÄ ö  ë  è ûS ëC &  ê äÂ é  ù $ í¯ ò í ëxU ê 5 è  ç¯ ä í¦ î 1üB ³ ñ ù5 & 6  ! S í &B ê é ä5v ç y  ñ èW û ä íØ ë Ã ô  ¯ ò í ë 6$ ø½ ä B & ê ö é ·èh ü S è &¦ ê ¯ è ñ è &£ô íY   ë  u êS íq æ3 2  í ëØô   7   éh ë  S î $ íu ò í ëx8 ê  øÂ ä & ê ö é ³è¤ ü è5 & 6 !D1  üx ê é ëx å I1 ù é·ö¯ ùw í   è³¯ ù ñ ëÂ û  é ³ä¯ ù ê è·S ü ~ ç9 äº å äxv ê  é ·äx ùW ê ëù¯·êù³é» ù çx ä «ñø í¯  ò í ëxU ê  ø ä &B ê ö é ·è ü S è & ê î1 üQ   é ä9` åè'  ! í¯ ò íp ëh ê  ñS è & ê ä S è &ê ü³ ü ëµ  èD¡     ë ü¯ ñ è ûW¢ ä  u ò í& ëh 6  î 1 ü ö ³é¯ ùu ê íx è ñ è¯ ên éº ÷ 9 ! G  ³ äx ù ñD è  5 23 2 üS æ6 ¯ äê   ëÅÄ õ  ö ³éx ù ñ æ   í¯ ò í ëp ê ö·é ù ä ö éä  ø6 ä  ñD è¨ ì ç æé 5 23 2 Y ë¯ è ñ¦ èU ô èx ñ è5 & 6P !  ñ è&  ê äµ) & å` ëh è   D è¡  (  ³ ëx ü ñ èW û6 ä í¯ ò íp ë¹ ê 5 è  ç ä¯í  êS ë &ê  í¯ è êx ëx ñq ê íx·æ³üü·¨ ù ·è ü ìx ë$ ê S è &x ê î ¯ ü êux í ³ñ ù T5D ! C  · èS ü ì ëR 6 · é ù  é è ³û ùö ëpW ê ë 5 è &ê  ö ·é ùG 0 1 üS ë éE ë G  & ì ³í³üù ë j ç ©%$ è 8  ¯ èW ê ë üx è ñ òu íx ë ê ø² äx è ñ¯ æ êS ëé èS& Ã ê  ê æD ä ìÊ ë 2 é  ô ëx ñ x èÕ ì S ü æ ä9Ã å S í é ·ä¯ ùS í ³æ9 üS å é9 ä å è5 çä'  ! í¯ ò í ëx ê S è & ê ø ä¹) & å ë èØ` í è 0ù¯ ñ5 ë 5 ç  ç æ¯í $³ è ü ì ë4 6 % ! ` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è y ç ü ëx êx äI ê øÊ ä ¡      ñ èW û ä ` í è öx ë íx í è55 ç   y  èS·  é ùx ë ê é ä¦ å ¯ ò íp ë$ ê q ê` í èx ö ñë¹ ü  è &B ê ¯ è ñ è£ & $ ô ` í è ö ëxx í í5 è Å ç  1üS éä  èS·  é ùx ë ê é ä åª¯ ò í ëxI êq ê` í ·è³ü ü ë¯ ç² í è5 & r 6  !  í òu íx ë êØ   ä¯ ê ·é8 ù 8  S è VIù¯x í í ë9 üå è x ñB è 5 ô  í è ö¯ ëx í í5 è ç¤ è5 & 6  ! íp ñ¯ èS í æ 2  ö³éù·û ü ä û ·é5 ù ` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç ü³ ù ëj ç% © è½  x èW ê ë üx è ñ©b¯ ò í ëpê &   è ³éùp ë ê é9 ä å  é ·äx ùp ê å ³è³ü ü9 äÂ å è5 & 6    ! íS ö ·éx ù9 ê è5 è Ã ç  ö ³éùuí ù é ë öx ñ¹ ä  ñ «äø ê éx ëu ê íu ùx í í7 ë  ü ëS é ä¯p í ñD è u ê ñ5 ë ç¯í ë ³ü  ù æµ ì x ä ê!W ô ä &  øº ä öS·éùQ   é ëxu ê íp ñ è7  éS¹ æ ñ æ¤ ä èW û äx ñ $·çùv¯ äê ñ  èB  ñ¹ ä ³éù 8  è· ù Q¯ æ êu í èD ì  ü æB ä ôs·ü ù ëB ç ³ñ ùS è &B ê W êS ë &B ê   5 è çx ñ «ä ø ³éù x è ñB è  ô    è û· ü ä û ·é¦ ù íüS ë æ  ù ·û ù7  · éQ ù ³üü " !8 ñ¯ äS í éD ä §5 í  ö ³éù¯ ê è5 è ª ç S è &ê äxh ê òp åS ëÃ ì  ö ³é ù äµ ö Q  éë íS é ³ëS ün  S ö ·é2 ù  ô ·è ù û èxB ñ  î` í ·è³ù ü  èxÃ ñ ö³é¯ ùW ê ëü 1 © ü ä& å îx í ê éS ë 9 ù åù¯¯ ê ñx ëC   è &U ê  ö ³é·ù³üù ë ç8E X   ¯ è íù é ë¯ ö ñ$ ä í ö ³é¯ ù ê è5 è ç    è   èS è8 é S ä£ & # ô ³í üS ë æù³û ù7  ³ é ù ñS è & ê äD øD ä Öø ü ëS &D è6 ì  é# ä í ö ³é¯ ù ê è5 è ç

 ñ èS1Iu ùx í í ëü  8  èuíS ëº ì T q âj ÷r © £ T 6 ø ä   åp ë ñ9 æ å å7 " 7 X  èx ñ æ·ö ùT

!  ¯ ( ò íp ë¹ ê ³é¹ ù 8  S è 1Iu ùx í í ë9 ü¹ å ¯ ü9 ê åx è¯ ñ ñ9 ä åS³é8 ù ¯ è ñ¦ èô êp å èq¡ 2  ìu æ íh5 è  çx ë í & ·ê2 ù U ô í³è¯ ù ñ ä ö¯ èW ê ëÄ å  ñ èS&  ê¬ ä ¯ ä êÂ ö ³é ù ö é·ä ü èxì í ` è ö¯ ëx í í5 è  ç Q   éU ë I ¢ ¨    p5 !   ö è x íp ê å`q èF 2  ì¯ æ í    è 10ù³ ü ëp ñ è é èö 5 è çu ä íw(  x ë&  ¯ ò í ëpw ê ·é5 ù ` í è öx ë íx í¤ è õ± !p íp ê` åq èF 2  ì¯ æw í  é ä53 ç  ç ä9å & êÖ2 B ù & ô í è öx ë¯ í` í è5¨ ç D  ëS4 &  í¯ ò íp ë¨ ê B & êäD ì u ä í î å³S ù (¯ ä¦ ê è5 çx ëí  è &¨ ê  éä ö é·x S ù ê9 è è5 ç ¡  æj5 © W ô ·äü³ ü «ä3 ø 7 ë  í ëØô 2 R¯ ò í ëpU ê 7   éS ë ¢¯ è ·êu ù7 í  ê è é ëp¯ ñ ê én÷ ñx è VI¯ ù¯ í íë³ü    ¯ è íx ëì p ê åq è¡ 2  ìæ

í Q¢ü ä ä &)å  '  ê æD ä ì ëS ö é·x ù ê9 è5 è  ç ¤ ë  í ëBÂ ô  u ò í ëx3 ê ¡   8  S è VIù¯x í í ë9 üå ¯  ü ê9 åx è¯ ñ ñ9 äS å ³é¦ ù ¯ è ñ¦ è ô¢ í è öx ë í¯` í3 è çv  ø ä  üp ë ê¯ äv ê ë 2 7   éÂ ë  í¯  ò íx ë ên é ÷½D !  è ö ë¯x í í5 è çÂ  èS1 I ù¯¯ í í³ë üj å © è¯ ñe  ¨ ë  ø¹ ä 9 ê åq èF 2 ì¯ æÉ í S è &ê í ` è) & åx ê ë  ç îp ¢` Æ ¯ Ä  ö³é ùW û5 ä  çx è ñ ñ¯ è ê ø ë î ê9 å èqF 2 S ì æu íp í Öês ù Öøù¦ è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç ë  Ô  èxIV¯ ù¯ í í ³ë ü å ·ê ù íÂ ë %   17 !   ( & ³ ö ù&  í ëØô S ç & ·êù¯ ñ ä ³ö üë ³í ù &B ê  ø ä é·ä¯ ù íù9 åx è ñx   è öp ë ñ è ûw ë  è5 & 6  ! ç& · ê¯ ù ñ ä³ö ü ë 8  u è íS ëì ê 9 åq èF 2 S ìæ'  ë ø± ä % åx ëS ñ æ9 å å ë  è &É ê x í ê é èu` í è¯ ñ   è¯S ñ æ³ö& ùT  åx ëS ñ æ9 åª å  " XF ¯ èS ñ æ ö³& ùT ' øä %

ñx  è VI¯ ù¯ í í³ëü  ¯ ù ñS ì¥  D  ø ä %åx ë ñ æ åª å "G X 2  è¯S ñ æ ³ö& ùT

! %   j y   ê æx ä ì ë W ô ³äü èxÖê ù æI x èU ì ¯ ä¹ ê  x  Q  é ë   íu ò íx ë ê øÅ ä  é ³äu ù í9 ù` å¯ è ñS   è &B ê   è¯S í æ ëå ä í³ ü7 ë  í  ç ³è ü ìx ä ñ  ñ ë·ü5 ù ³çù '  !  í¯ è í ëÉ å & êx äÄ ì ·é ù 8   è û ³è ù) & å7 ë íØ ë ô ! · ( ü ü ë å¯ ùW ê ë çx ë ñt     èW û¯ ä ñ$  ç³ ù î í  çB &Ö êx ù ñ ä·öüë  ñ èB & ê ä & ·ê2 ù ¦ ô  ¯      ê æ äD ìë  ø ä± é ³ä¯ ù ³í ù åx è ñ  èB & ê  î ·êü¯ æ íx è ñÄ ë ª í "  ! íu ò íx ëê  í¯ ò íp ë¤ ê öè  ` í è ³æ üW ë û²³ü ü ë åx èh ñ 7   éº ë é·ä¯ ù í9 ù åx è ñ   ñ äx ä 8  ¦ èW ôS ä§ &í ñ  è  & ê  ä 5 ö  é  ä 5 ç  ë E è x ñ  p ë ñ $ è x ñ  è B ¤ ô & ) å ³  ù & £ ô 2 ¢ ! ê 9 è  é  ë x ñ x ê  ³ é ù     ö è í  ç ¯ ñ¯  èê  &) å ù£ & s ô î í¯ ò í ëpE ê è5 ç¯ ä í8ñ«ä2 ø ` í¯ è ñ æS öt I % åp ë ñ æ å å3 ë  è5 & W 6 G !  x è ñæ  ñ ³ë³ü5 ù ç·¯ ùE í   S è é· ùx ë ê é ä& å í¯ ò íx ë² ê èu` í è &ª ê ¯ ä ê ö·é ù ö é ³ä ü èDy ì` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç © ³  ö& ùl T · é ù58  ¯ è ê é¯ è íx è ñ   íÕ ù  çB &Ö êx ù ñ ä ·öüØ ë ³í ùB & êQ ø3 ä %  åx ë ñ æ å åª ë  è5 & 6 êS ë &¦ ê  ê é ë è5 ç ) & å ù£ & Ã ô p ê` åq èF 2  ì¯ æí  é ä55 ç  ç ä å¬Ç ë   x è ñx ë§ &í 2  ! çB  &Ö êx ù ñ ä ·öüÃ ë 3 T q â ÷j{ © £ T ¥ 6  è &3 ê 8  u èx íæ  é èB &Ì ê ·êùQ îQ   é æ «äøÌ ê ä é íB ë ô    é ë6 í¯ ò í ëx ê î èW û äx ì¢ ë 8  ¯ è êx ëu ê2 í 7 í  " !( ¯ ü9 ê å èxñ¯ ñ9 äS å ³é² ù` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç u ò íx ë¢ ê ·èS ü ìx ë ·ê ù¯ æÉ í  ë j øº ÷  ! 5 í çS& ·ê¯ ù ñ ä ³ö ü ëµ8  u è í ëS ì p ê` åq èF 2  ì æ ' 7 é ë 7 øÖ¯ ù¯ í í³ë üå ¯ äê  ç & ê·¯ ù ñ ä³ö ü ëª³í ù &B¢ ê   ¯ èS í æ ëÅ å ) &³ å ù &£ô 5 í çx ñx è ê  é5 ä ç ñ è (` ë è & ©¨ q õ¤ ÷ ¦ õ  ö ³éu ùS í¨ æ  í è öx ë¯ í` í3 è Ã ç  ·øu ùx í í ëü9¦ å ¯ äº ê   ¯ è ê~   ç¯ èê ~ © ç9 äº å 8  è¯ ñS ë§ &5 í  í¯ ò íx ëU ê  èB & ê7 ø¢ ä è5 ç ä¯í W êS ë &B6 ê  íØ ë ô  ç ³è ü ì äx ñ § ©W ê ë8 î ¯ üu êx íx ñ I5U î S ç & ·ê¯ ù ñ ä ³ö ü ë ¯ ùS ñ ìG  l &  í ù5 & 6 !E  x è ê é5 è  ç ³è ü$  ç·ù ê u í èö·öS ùB ì S è5 & { 6 !j%  (   ¡ ! D y  W ô ³äB ü x è ÖêS ù æI  íB ë Ç ô çB &Ö êx ù ñ ä ·ö ü ë ³íS ù &ê íB ë ô  çB & êÖx ù ñ ä·ö üº ë ¯ ù ñ ìG  x & ¨ ë í ç & ·êx ù ñ ä³ö ü ë  èx è ñB &ê ¯ è í èB &ê  øä  ä é·ä¯ ù í9 ù åx è ñ   è öx ë ñ è ûÃ ë  è &56 ¡ !  èx ñ æ ·ö ù T ³é ù 8  è¯ ê é¯ è í èx ñ íS&  ê ö éx è¯ ñu ê3 í èS& E ê S è ·é ù ì6 ç ä¢ å ¯ ä7 ê  ñ è)  ñÉ ä énª ÷ !% Q   é ë5   íu ò íx ë ê øè  ñÌ  ë î í è ö¯ ëx í í5 è ç øº ä F  F  x äU ì èB &Ã ê    èb 0   üx ë év ë ) & å ù£ & Ì ô î  ç &BÖêùxñ  ö è  í¯ ò íp ë ê 3 è çu äU í  ñ «äøh  å ëp ñ æ9 å åÄ ë S è &v ê    èW û¯ ä ñ$  ç³¹ ù ê·¹ ù  ê æ ì ©x ä³ö üÃ ë   ¯ è í ëS½ ì T q â ÷©{£ T 6 7 ë ø$ ä  í èx ñ æS öI %  å ëxS ñ9 æ å å¢ ë è5 & 6 íè³æ üW ë û ³ü ü ë` å¯ è3 ñ 7  é3 ë  é ä·¯ ù íù9 åx è ñ£  x èW ê ëp ñ èF  5 ä ç& ·ê2 ù  ô í è ö¯ ë íx í è5ç ( !D1  üxp ê` å è¯x ñ ñ ä¸ å  çS è &ê  S 8 è IV¯ ùx í íë9 üÑ å  ç & ·êx ù ñ ä ³ö ü¢ ë   ¯ è íS ëº ì T3q âj ÷{ © £ T W 6 S è & ê îQ7   é ëS5 &  ñ èB & ê ä  øÖ¯ ù¯ í í³ë üv å äxÅ ê ³è ü ì ë ê ä¹ é íëØô  çB &Ö ê ùx ñ ä ·ö ü ë   è¯ íx ë ì© p ê å èq¡ 2 ìæ ' è &¬  ê ª é s d  !  í è æ³ ü ëW û ³ü ü ë` å¯ èñ W ô ä· ü x ü ñ· ù ¡ëº ø Ã ë è û ëS& x ä ê 7 é¯ èê S è & êØS í æB &¹ ê Q   é ë7S í  üS è£ I êp` åq èF 2  ì¯ æ7 í  ñ «äØ ø ` í è ³æ üW ë7 û  ê éx è ñs è £¢ùl  D  S ë&  S è &Ä ê  ê æ± ì  é ³äu ù íù9` å¯ è ñ  &D·öS ù & & ·ê2 ù ¤ ô  í è öx ë¯ í` í è5 ç 8  S è 1Iu ùx í í ë9 üå S í é·äx ùp ê åx ë ñ¯ è ê·éù¬u è` í è & ê¹·üü7" j ! 9 í è öx ë í¯` í3 è ± ç  ñä   ü éä   í  çB & êÖx ù ñ ä·ö ü¸ ë 8  u è í ëS ì p ê` åq èF 2  ìæ' 7   é ë  ñ è D ë è & © ¨ q õ ÷Åõ í è ` ö ëxx í í5 è h ç  ô «èø ëE1 ü é ä ø äª ö ·éx ùq ê í¯ ùS í é äI å íS é ·äùxp ê åp ë ñx è ê·é ù G  é ë ç  !  í è ö¯ ëx í í è5¹ ç   ¯ è ê ë³ ü¯ èj ñ ©bu ò íx ëê   è· û ü ä û é· ù P  ò¯í ë 6 !Q ö ³é¯ ù9 ê è è5ç  è & ê¨ ê æD ä ì6 ë x íp ê å ¡ë ø S í æ ·äùx ñW ëû ö ³éù Öø¯  ùx í í ë9 ü å ³éùÅ ñB è W ô äD   ü ë¯ ù ê é¯ è êD äx  è5 ç¯ äÇ í (  ëS& G  S ä &9 ê è5ç  ê æx ä ì¨ ë íp ê é ëSù9å¯ ù¯ ê ñS ë   ñ è & ê ä ç¯ ñ «ä ø ·éÄ ù ä¯ ê ` í è öx ë íx í è5² ç ³üù ë ç ³íS ù & ê² êS ë &E ê  ö ·é ùW ûx ä ñ   í  çB & êÖx ù ñ ä·ö üB ë  ñ è & ê¨ ä  ö ³é¯ ù íS5 æ u ò íx ëê 5 è  ç¯ ëí  ©h è ê éu èh í ñ¯ äW ê ë¯ ù ·ê ù ³éw ù  è &Â ê èx ñ è£ & É ô íS é ³ä¯ ù9 ê åp ë ñ èx ê ³é± ù Y  B ë ôj% © èS éä è &Ø  ê ñ«äs ø ·üü ë åx è ñ¤& ·ê2 ù ¢ ô   x è ñ ëS$   ç ä2 å í7 ë u ê í è &D·öS ù5 & íØ ë $ ô  u ò íx ëê x è ñB è ôµí` è öx ëx í í5 è ç¯ èS í æ ë å èDh ì %    ( ! (  s  ü é ä W ô ³äü   ñ èû ñ «äøü³  ü ë` å¯ è2 ñ S è & êÇ çB & êÖx ù ñ ä·ö üÉ ë T q â ÷jr © £ T ` 6  ö é³¯ ùS í æ î  ü öS·é¯ ù í³x ù ñB  ñ æ ' íB ë ôÊ u ò í ëxv ê  ñ «äU ø ³üü ë` å¯ è½ ñ  è5 & 6 ( ! è öx ë í¯` í è5ç &  í èx«ñ ø S è &ê ! í è öx ë¯ í` í è5Ê ç ³è ü ¯ ù ·ê ü¨ æ Ô ç x ä ê 1S ü  x è! ñ x ä ê è öx ë¯ í` í è5¦ ç ³ü ù ë j ç ©%è  ö é³ ùG  @  ê  é è£ & w ô    è ö é ëx) & å¹ íØ ë ¦ ô  è ·é³ù ü p ê åq è¡ 2 ìu æ¦ í è&  ê   ê é ³è³ù9 üå ³è üS ö ·é¯ ùº í ëv  ³ ä ü $ çÂ è Y   ë çÅè³ ü ( äx èC  íë  íu ò íx ë êÄ·è ü ¯ ù ·ê ü æ6º ç ¯ ä ê ü³ ù ë j ç ©%¤ è  è &B7 ê  øU ä x è ñx æW ê ë «èº ø 1 ü  ¯ è¤ ñ S è &¦ ê ö³éùuS íw æ éS ë &3 ê  ñS è &W êp ëñ ê é ë û ·èü¯ è¢ ñ ê é¯ è ê é ä å ·é ùx ë ê é ä åÂY   ë ç¤ è öx ë¯ í` í3 è º ç $ ë  øw ä F  F  äxì è  ö¯ ëx í í è5Ñ ç & íx è «ñÇ ø v ë  ê é èuv í x í ñ èuS í æU î í è¯ í ë å 3 è çu ä¸ í n é÷  ! · êù è &56 !%  ¯ S ò í ëp¹ ê  ñ «ä¦ øP ¢ í ù é éx è ê  7   éÄ ë D   u ò íx ë¢ ê  ñ «äø ¯ ç ñ¯ è ê ö³é ù7   é èuB í è¯ ñ «ä9 øD èÌ ì è ö¯ ëx í í è5 ç ·ü ù ëç © E è  éS ë ø ä¦ è ³é³ù& üp ê` åq è 2F ì æ¯B í S è &ê ö é·x S ùW êS ë é³5 ù  ç ä  èB && ê í ëØ ô¢ â "    íu ò íx ë# ê ñ è & êB ä S è &D ê ø$ ä G éë 8  ¯ è ·ê ù  è31 ³ ü üx ë æ é ë ² çp í ñ¯ è íSØ æ W ê ëSB & ê íØ ë B ô ³íS ù &¦ ê ñ «ä3 ø é¯ ä í` ë¯ è8 ñ è5 & 6 '  7 ³é$ ù  é ä55 ç  ç ä å ê ä é¯ è ñ¦ è¨ ô &)³å ù£ & & ô í ¯ ç ñ¯ è& êp êS å é³¯ ùu ê ³í ù`     è é³ ùp ë êé9 äå  !  í è öx ë¯ í` í3 è çÂ ô «è8 ø ë58  èux í ³í5 ù çx·ü³üù¯u ê² í Öê¦ ù ê æ ì î  ç &BÖêùx ñ ä ·ö ü3 ë 8  u è íS ëì í` è ö¯ ëx í í5 è E ç ³ü ù ë çj% © èµS è & ê  î í¯ è í ë å B & ê äDÇ ì énÒ ÷ !7  7   éº ë (   ñ  è(  ` ë è&  © ¨ q õ ÷¤ õ  éä  ê é3 è  ç èW ûx ä ñ$  · ç ù éë  í ëØ» ô S ç & ·êù¯ ñ ä ³ö üë  í¯ ò íëp ê ñ «ä øu ê íD è$ ì   è¯ ò ñ¦ ä ôÇ çB &Ö êx ù ñ ä·öü¨ ë 8  u è íS ë ìÅT q â ÷{ © £ T £ 6  è5 & 6  ¯  è íx ë ì7p ê` åq èF 2  ì æ ' ñ«äÕ ø    2 !¡ y C  øy ä ·üü ë` å è¯8 ñ  è öx ë ñ è û¨ ë è5 & 6

 ! íp ñ æ ä³ ù ûS ë & D è ì u è` í è &U ê ³éB ù  í è öS éS ë &)å ä ê2 x í ¯ ç í³ ù éS ë &) å5 è ¤ ç é·äx ùW ê ë åDVI¯ ù¯ í í ³ë ü¹ å  ö é³¯ ù ê(   ë(  ë² ø¨ ä  è ³æ üW ë6 û è& ê íB ë 7 ô íD ë îQ  x è ñ ³ä üF  %è ¯ ä í ü ë íB ë 2 ô p í ñ æ·ä ù û ëS & x è& ì ·üù5 ë çj% ©7 è í! ¢ ñ¯ è íSæ üS ë æ ùû³ ù7  é³ ù  ö ·é³ùü³ ü èF  ä5 ç  øº ä  è ³æ üW ëº û S è5 & 6  ! S í é ³ä¯ ù ê ë å·ùüS¡    ë &S ) å¯ æv í ¯ ê ñØ ë  ô &º ê  êS ë &Ã ê p í ñ æ·ä ù û ëS & x èv ì  ñ¯ èS í æÅ ø ä èS å é ³è üW ë ûx è ñ è &¤  ê øä  ö ³é ù7  éx ëu êx í ñ è 7 éÂ æ  ñ æ ä¾   è ûWx ä ñ $ç³ ù u ä í ü± ë ¦ è ð ! ³ 9 é ù ë ç ä9  ³ ü ù ë j ç ©%è  è¯ 8 ñx æp êS åx æ¯ ñu ê íS é æ îu è í2 ù ¯ ô ñ è & êW äq î øE ä D  ¯ ä$ ê éy ä íS é ä·x ùW ê ë ³å³ù ü¡  (  E ë    è 01ù © ü³ V ë ù åD è§  í¤ ö é³ ù(  ³ ä ü è û èn  G  ìÅ   è ö ëp ñ æ äS å é¹ è x è¦ ì  ü æ ä& å î S  5   ¨D  5  8¯ ®W j 7   £Ù¨` £  î³ü ù ë çj% ©S è øI ä` íu èx í æ    è ûWx ä ñ $ç³E ù 7 éº ë  ô èé è x ñx æW ê ëS¦ éS í æ äS éx ä ñ) & åS é§  íë 7 é ë î9 è åS éx ë ê  è9 å åE ë  è 2 ù ô î¯  èS í# æ ø ä  í` ëè X öS· 7 é ùQ  · æ üS å ·éS ù î³ü ù ë çj% ©& è ø äØ í ³è¯ ù¯ ê ñ èD(  x ä ñ  è ³û¯ ùp ê åx ëx ñ êu êE ë è& ê ö é· S ù  è è¦ ò ³è·üS ù£ & # ô êS ë &$ ê   B è W ô ä§ &3 í  é ä³¯ ù ê ëS·æ üW ë û è í³S ù & ê ø& ä ípÖêS üu æ` í¯ èñ è5 S &  6  ! í ö ³é¯ ù9 ê è5 è ç8 ê æx ä ìë S í é·äx ùW êx ëx í ñ è û é ä¦ å ø äÅé·äx ùp ê` å ·è³ü ü ä¢ å ë   8 è ·éùx ë ê é ä¢ å ) & å ù£ & ôQü³ ù ëI ç ø¦ ä íS æB  ñ ä6 å  ë  ö ³é¯ ù íSB æ  ê æ ä 8  · èx ù¯ ñ ñ ëå íB ë  ô ` í è æ IS ù é &) åx è¨ ê ¯ è í èB &Ì ê øÉ ä  é ä³¯ ù ê ëS·æ üW ë û èÅ&D ö æx ä ñ äB &Õ ê "  ! íp ñ è  ü «ä¹ ø 7   é2 ë  í¯ ò íp ë ê6x ä ê é·ù í ` è ö¯ ëx í í5 è Ã ç  è 0¯ ù ê·¯ ù ñ·äx ù ñ 7   é¬ ë  øÖ¯ ùx í íë9 ü¬ å ·ü ü ë å¯ ù ê ë5 ç¯ ä ê æ ë¯ äê  í  çB & êÖx ù ñ ä·ö ü¤ ë  ö ·éùS¯ é ñ ë ³è ü  è ·éS ù &) å ë ¦ ç 7   éÉ ë   ¯ è íS ëj ì ©%è³ üx æ ñ¤ ö é·¯ ù íSæ  è ·ûü ä û³éE ù í ù5 & 6 !³ ü ù ë j ç ©%¤ è  ö ³é¯ ùS í¨ æ ê é5 è  ç è öS ë é ëÄ ç ¯ ò í ëx¨ ê  ñ «äø ê ¯ ñD ä¡  ¡  ¯ æ í5 è &$ ê x è ñ ³ä üF  %¢ è ¯ ä ê íØ ë ª ô  ñx è(  S ë¥   í ùB & ê øI ä ü ë ä¨ ö  è5 & 6 ÿ@  G ¦  |7 | E ¤  u |¦ 8 ¢ ÿ  ÿ @  G ¦ 7 | ¤ uE ÿ   ¥ ! 8 %    í è öx ë¯ í` í3 è # ç ø2 ä  ñx è6 ì  ç æ é ¯ èW êp ë ñ èG  ä5ç w ë 8   è û³ ü äû³év ù  ü éä  íu ò íx ë7 ê  ü ë å ùG  @  êÂ7   éÉ ë è5·çx ù$ ê  øw ä F  ³ ä¯ ù ñ èx ê ¯ ñS ä§ &6 í ëB ñ ä« ø íu ò íx ë¹ ê ·éù8  ¯ è êS ë 1 ù ³åx ùu ê ñ ëS  p í ñ¯ èS í æØW êS ëB & ê²9 ê å¡ëª ø è& ê ö é·x S ù ê &D·öù³ ü &D·ö ù&  4  ¯ è ñ¦ è ôí W ô ä7  · é2 ù Ì ôu ê í5 ä çQ ø ä ü³ ü ë åx è3 ñ 7   éë 22W é ³ä¯  ù í³ ù åx è ñY  îx è ñ æS ö I  è &$ ê ³é$ ù 2 é W ô ä &y í í# ë êB æ G !E8   è û ³è ù) & åÌ ë¯ è ñ¦ èô ê5¯ üp ê` å¯ èx ñ ñ äØ å  í è ö¯ ëx í í è5# ç ø2 ä  ñx è6 ì  ç æ¹ é 7 éë
¡ ¡ ¡  

  8 è(  ` ë¯ èS ñ&

 ¡  ( ! 7  ø2 ä ³ü ü ë åx èñ  è ö ëx ñ è ûw ë 7   é ë   2 G !  y  øv ä é·äù¯³í ù å èx ñ è ö ëp ñ è ûº ë  è5 & 6  ! í W ô ä7  ³ é2 ù h ô  è &E ê ·üüÅ ë  ñ «ä ø   x èW ê ëD è  èx ñ  íØ ë ô íx í è åx ä ñc  ³ í ù5 & 6 Q !  ö é·x ùq ê` í¯ è ê ñ«äøÂ  ¯ èS í æ íB ë ô 4  èx ñD è¨ ì ç æé 2  è  ö¯ ëx í í è5w ç 7   é ëµ ö ³é ù ³é ùp ë¯ ñê  ñ «äøÂ  ¯ èS í¤ æ èx ñ èBª ô   8  1  !( ! 1 w   èx ñD èì ©  ~ ç æB é  í è öx ë¯ í` í è5 ç W ô ä7  ³ é2 ù 2 ô q êp í ñSt I é· ù î í B ñ¦ ä ô2 ñ è & ê¢ ä n é# ÷7 !    è 01¯  ùx í øh ä W ô ä7  é·2 ù 8 ô  ö ³éù³éùp ë ñ¯2 ê 5 ë & ·ê2 ù ± ô ç& ·êùx ñ ä ³öü6 ë ùx ñ ì Gp & S è &ê ø ä`  í¯ èS ñ æS ö` I    åp ë ñ æ9 å å7 ë èS& # ê íp ê éu è` í¯ èS ñ`   ¯ èS ñ æ³ö& ù4 T  ! ` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è ç  x  è ñ è ) ñ ä¤ü³ ü ë å ù ö·ä ü ä éx ä ñ) &å  ø3 ä q ê í³ùü è& Ã ê D & ö æx ä ñB &Ä ê 8   èW û5 ä ç íB ë º ô &)åù£ & ô W ô ä 7³é2 ù ôÅ ö ³é ù ³é ù ëp¯ ñ¦ ê 8   è 0u ù6 í  ê é ëxu ê íS é äÅ å µ ë & ·ê2 ù ô  ¯  è íS æ  é è && ê íØ ë Ì ô ñ¯ èu ê í¯ è ê¢ W ô ä7  ³ é2 ù $ ô ö·éù³ùü ' H   5 è  ç ë¯í è5 & 6 !   çB &Ö êx ù ñ ä·ö ü¢ ë ù¯S ñ ìG  ` &  èB & êG   ì 3 è  ç9 äp å ñ è8 ä è¯ ñ¦ è3 ô  !¡ é ³ä¯  ù ê9 å è ' ³é3 ù   D è ì·x ù ñ9x å í èh  S í é·äùxW êx ë ê·5 ù ç·³ùü èB &x ê ø2 ä 5 è ç¯ ä í î9 èS å éè D ! è5· ( çx ù ê è& 8 ê  ø ä è5 ç¯ äº í ¯ üp ê` å¯ èx ñ ñ äå  ç è &h ê  ·ø¯ ù í¯ í ³ë üº å ¯ ä êU·èüS ìë x è ñB è ô2 F  F  x äª ì  ñ8 ä p ê åq è¡ 2  ìu æí  è ö ë¯x í í5 è ¨ ç S è &# ê ø7 ä íx¯ ê ñS ë3   ñ è &B êä  êS ë &Å ê   ¯ èu ê í è ö ö æ¯Ä í  ü è û·x ù êp åD è  íx è¹ ñ n y 7   éë  p í ñ è¯S í$ æ  ñ «äø   2    7 éë    &   øE ä  íx è ñ æS öI    å ëp ñ æ9 å å ë  è && ê î ñ è û¦ èW ô7 ä D  !  çS è &ê b  E ì  ê é èu5 í  è ö¯ ëx í í5 è  ç èB & êÅ · ø ùux í í ëü9¤ å ¯ äÉ ê 8  u è íS æ D èE ì  êS äÉ é  ü æ9 äå í p ñ èD   ë è & © ¨ q õ ÷Å¦ õW ê ëSB &# ê ê é ë è55 ç ) &³ å ùS£ &  ô íx ê é ³è³ù9 ü å ³ü ù ë ç © èÌ ê éë © ù³ 1 ü$   ç ä9¤ å R ¨ q õ¤ ÷ j õ ©¡ é ä8 é   ¯ è íSØ æ ` y 7   éë x í ñ èux í æ î 1 ü ö ·éùxq ê` í¯ è ñ è¯ ên é÷ !  l ç è & ê ñ «äE ø 8  èSV I ù¯x í íëü9$ å 1x üp ê` å¯ èx ñ ñ ä åS·éB ù x è ñB è & ô` í è ö¯ ë íx í è5$ ç G é ë ç ·ê ü¯ æ íx èº ñ ¹ ë  í ë7   é¢ ë  í¯ ò íx ëÉ ê  èB &7 ê ü³ ü ë 8  ¯ è ê ³ëùxÖêù³éÄ ù n   ñ¯ è7 í E !lS ç & ·êù¯ ñ ä ³ö üë  ¯ ù ñ ì Gl & è& ê2 ø¢ ä ¯ èS íº æ ³é¨ ù  í  ç ·è ü ì¯ äS ñt  èB &¨ ê  ñ «äø ³è ü ³ìu ùS í éx ä  íx èñ èDÅ ì ü æ¦ ä ô p í ñ è¯S í æ ü ëx æ  ù ³û ù7  ³ é¦ ù ø$ ä  ñD è¨ ì  ç æÅ é 8   è òx ñ ë E ç W êx ë &ê íq p ê` í è ö öSu æº í í ù5 & 6  !  ê é ³è³ù9 ü¹ å ³üù ë ¤ ç øw ä 9 è å ùS ä) &º å í! ¢ ñ¯ è íS æ S è &ê   7 é ë5S ñ æ³ä ù ûx ë & D è ì ñ¯ èS í æ çx ä «ñÑ ø W ô ³ä·üü«äø ç& ·êx ù ñ ä ³ö ü ëÂ¯ ù ñ ìG  & è &E S ê ñ«äE ø  í  ç ·è ü ì¯ äS ñe  · é ù ë¢ ç è5 & x 6  !p í ñB è W ôx äx   é ·äx ùW ê ëx å VIù¯x í í ë9 üå ñ ä äxc  (  ëS£ & · ê¹ ù 8   è û ³è³ù üD èÑ ì  ç è¯u ê í§ $ í  è &BØ ê W ê ëSB &Ì ê` í è ö ëxx í í5 è 6 ç  öx ëó x ä ê ³è ü ì ëx è¦ ì ¯ äB ê  ü «æ øu èx í¢ æ èDh ì  ü æ äB3 ô ·êù  çx è êq í  íº  è  · ä ü   è ë én÷ ! ç & ·êùx ñ ä ³ö ü ë ùx ñ ì § D è& ê½G  Ç ì 8  · è üQ  éS ë & ¯ ü ñ äD ä è x ñB è Å ô &)³åS ù£ & 2 ô  í¯ è íx è ñ ¡D  & ë ³ü ù ë ç © ¨ è  èB & ê ö³ é ³ù·ü ü è F3 ä  ç ø¨ ä  è ³æ üW ëû ü ³ëùx  ê é¯ è êx äp   è &# êx è ñ³äüF  %ª è ¯ ä ês íB ë y ô ³í¯ ù í1 ü ëS é ë ³íS ù & ê ø äÌ¯ è íD äB  ñ æ è5 & 6¡ !  y x è ñ æ ö· ù T ·é¤ ù 8  ¯ è ê é¯ è íx è ñ~  ¯ è ñQ ëU î S ç & ·ê¯ ù ñ ä ³ö üÄ ë ùx ñ ì D è &$ S ê ö³é¯ ùS í æ î ³í¯ ù í 1üS ë éÌ ë ñu èx í æb © G ì© ñ¯ èS í$ æ y ë øÌ ä íx·êü¯ æ í èx7 ñ è5 & 6  ñ¯ è íS3 æ ¢ ë G2 ì  ê é è¯B í ` í è ö ë¯x í í5 è # ç ø ä2 ñD è¨ ì çSæ ¤ X¡` y x è ñ æ ³ö ùT

! ( ¡ y D    u êS í æ öSæ "D îG        ` í è öx ëF  p î6   j p    xÀ  ¡W W   p W 9 `  p° W  9E  9¡ x ¨ ·W s  p ¥ pS ¾ ¤ W  ¡W  s  W ¯   Ì  5W  1) ¶S x u ¥W ¯ ®W ¤  4 3 W s W  ¡W  s p 9  n S9  ° S¥¬   Á2 (0 p À °D7 ¤ '    ¥«±   q    ¨W  pp  p x B  &  én÷  !  íu ò íx ëÑ ê & í·ù ü$  çä9 å åÊ ë x äU ê ü· ù5 ë çj% ©è ö é·x S ù ñ¯ æ9 ê åSx æ¯ ñu ê í2 è 2 ú  X x í ê é è5 ç é¯ ä ³ñ ù û é èU  ¯ è íS ë ìj% © è öx ë¯ í` í3 è É ç ·éù é ³ä¯  ù ê ëS³é ùB  ñ ä ä  !x ù ñ & è5 ç &(S ë&' ! ¤ 7 éº ë  é è ³é ù ò ò& ë4 6 !76   w ! 253 î é è  B è ô'S îS ö é· ùD   ä ò ³éy ù¨ 2 y  y3¡  ( y  © ¨ '  î ê¯ è ·êu ù íp ñ è·ûS ù é æ² í ö ³é ù ( ä ò ·éI ù% ¨  î è åS é ³èù9å '  é ³ä¯ ùê ©   ë ¯ ç ñ«ä ø énÄ ÷ Q   éE ë  ñx è ê æ $ çä   ø$ ä  ê é5 è ¯ ç¯ ê ñS ë  7 è & â î íu ù í` è &ê ! â !9h  &  !   Å ¿ ¡S W x    p  ·B  ¢  Ì x  9   9  ¨ sW Ä  6 ¿ ¯ ® x ¤ ¤ j   S 5    ¨ D  Ä ¿   ¡  5  p  9   9°  ¯ Q Õ Ë r !  é è ³é ù ò ò& ë 6 !76   wy !( 4 ù ñ " 23 2  ü·x îW ê ëx ç ñ ä«U ø  è ö¯ ëx í í è5ç  ê è¯ é ñ¯ è ê é³ù  y  ¡åØ ø ¬ ú ! p ò å ù¯ é í2 è E ú Y  w ! & ¡  D  W   ñD è¨ ì  ç èW û7 ä ¤ î` íx èG  @ 6 ê ë ù  è¤õ X7äBq ô ê¦¯ ê ñS ë  5 è ç·5 ù ç S í é·ä¯ ùS í é¯ è ê%  èQ³ ü ù ë 2 ç ê9 èx é ñx è ê ·é8 ù u è íx ä § © ñ æS1x ù Öê ü æ63 ç  4 å øØ¦ ú ! ¤ ³ é ùx èq êx í éx è ñB ä  G 7   éS ë ! ¤    èx è ñ T   w 2¡ !  ¡  (   ñx è ì6 ç èW ûä ¤  î í è³ ùF  x ä ì è öx ë¯ í` í è33 ç 9 ê èx é ñx è ê ·éù  ø¨ ä êW ë x ç ñ äT X  ( è éØ ä ¯ ê ñx ë5  !5 è ç³3 ù ç S í é ä³¯ ù íS éx è ê  èQ· ü ù ëç 9 ê èx é ñx è êé³ ù u è íx ä § © ñ æS1x ù Öê ü æ63 ç  4 åØ ø ¦ ú ! ¤ ³ é ùx èq êx í é èxñB ä  G 7   éS ë ! ¤    èx è ñ T   w 2¡ ôW äQ  · é2 ù U ô    è 01¯ ù2 í ê éx ëu ê íS é ä å ë

ñ ä«5  ø   åp ë ñ9 æ å å7 " ¡ X `  x è ñ æ ³ö ùT

7 ! (  (8  R  ) &p å ñÅ ë  õ î F      í è öS ë î  ñx è ì6 ç æ ép î 9S   ¡§S p ¥p S E ¤ W  n   Ö¨EU Í D  U  p 9  n  D 7 ¶ W Ì  Æ2² Ì ¯ Å ° u  ¨Wp  px ` ¯ B  $  n é÷ 9 ! é· ù ë  ç ä  é ³äù¯ ê ë å·ùS ü¡    ë  ø ä öS·éx ù ñ¯ æ ê9S åx æ¯ ñu ê í èxÕ ñ 8  ¯ è ê é ³èx ù ñj ä ©D¯ ò íp ëÑ ê ³éÑ ù F  7¯ æ êu¬ í è¯ íë  X³ ü ù ë çÅåù éx ä¯ ñ ê9 å ³èÌ ü¨ 8 !  ñ æ ä ³ö·ü ù £# ! " 7 éw ë  ö ³é3 ù  ç ·è ü£ T ! '   w !  244 ë æ é ë) 6 î" !  ¢ °Q  °U  $ S x ¶S y ¶p    ¯ ¥Ê  Ï 2   ñS !³ ü ù ë¨ ç å ù é¯ ä ñxp ê å ³è ü¢ è  ö ³éù¯¯ ê ñ ä¯ í  ñ «ä¨ ø  è å¡ëø¯ ñx è ê ³é ù  ê é è ³ö·ù³ü üx è ê ·éù 7 é "A! ¨ &  ê ëx è ñ  åÅõ 7   é¨ ë ! # ¨ B  ñ« äØ ø  ôx ëñ  Q ! 6 Y  $ ë  £   w !( 4 ñx è6 ì  ç è åª è âS6 î   pW   ¶7W x ¹ À  ¨   D 7 ¶ W Ì   S   5   23 2  9  ` 3  Í¹W  ¡p   ¡ ¯   p  ª Ï «¥   ¼Öx 8 À S  ¥ ªq E    ¨ W p p p  x B    n é÷ ! é· 9 äx ùW ê ëx å IV¯ ù íx í ë9 ü å³ü ù ëj ç ©%& è ñ «äQ ø` í ·èS ü¯ æ ñ ø ä¨ é ³äù¯p êx å æ7  ³ éÌ ù å¯ ùW ê ë ç ©(¯ ä ê7 æ " ¥ ! ¨ & ê ëx èñ Å å õÂ7   éÌ ë! e ¨ )  ñ« ä øØ ôp ëñ  7 ! 6 Y  $ ë  £  w ¡ ! D  y(8  `   ñD è¨ ì  ç è ûWä ¤ î8  ¡     D   í è öS ë9  îx   ñD è¨ ì S ç æ ¤ îx~  5 è  ç ³æ ü ä   î  ¿  Ï !³ ü ù ë ç  u 8 è íS ë ìjF ©  é ³äù¯ê¯ ëp í ñ è û éä 9 !  éu äp í ñx è ê9# è h ! ¨©7   é¦ ë ñ5 è  çä  ! E â % 1 w |S I q  ÿ ¡ q y ~) q§ ¦ q 5  ! 9 ê åq è( 2 ¯ ä ñ ¯ è êx ë ñS ë  ¯ è í5ë ñ«äø¢  ³ è ³ü ù $ ç9 ä å` î9 ê¯ è í ëx ê ë  è& 8 ê ¯ èS íæ x ä3 ê íSÉ æ S ö ·é2 ù W ô ³äü· üë  ñ «äøªø9è9 å ë²¥ x ë ·éù³ ü$ ë £¥7   éÂ ë é ä# ä ( & ³ ë¯ ù í ä6 î  y ü è«u ø ñ3 è 5 ç  ç æ £¤( & x ë ñë ' è ö  ³ è2 ü W ô ä é òp å¢ ë ¯ ä ê  è ³ò³ù¢ ü ü æ¦ äE ô ¦ è ð }ÿq r t q ¦ { ¢ @ qu ¢ ¡   ÿ h¡  z  

Automatic Categorization of Announcements on the Australian Stock Exchange
Rafael A. Calvo Web Engineering Group The University of Sydney Bldg J03, Sydney NSW 2006 rafa@ee.usyd.edu.au Abstract
This paper compares the performance of several machine learning algorithms for the automatic categorization of corporate announcements in the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) Signal G data stream. The article also describes some of the applications that the categorization of corporate announcements may enable. We have performed tests on two categorization tasks: market sensitivity, which indicates whether an announcement will have an impact on the market, and report type, which classifies each announcement into one of the report categories defined by the ASX. We have tried Neural Networks, a Na¨ ive Bayes classifier, and Support Vector Machines and achieved good results. Keywords Document Management, Document Workflow

Ken Williams Web Engineering Group The University of Sydney Bldg J03, Sydney NSW 2006 kenw@ee.usyd.edu.au

1

Introduction

information needed by an individual trader to keep a reasonable understanding of what is happening with a particular company. This allows investors to make decisions based on information that is up to date and is equivalent to the information that company insiders might have. There is little doubt about the value of the information contained in these announcements, and several research groups are developing novel applications using this data. We describe in this article the evaluation of categorization techniques used to build these applications. The ASX Data Services is a financial information service providing daily market information from the Stock Exchange Automated Trading System (SEATS), ASX futures and the company announcement service. All daily stock exchange activity is available in different electronic data feeds that the ASX calls "signals." In our work, we have used announcements from the ASX's Signal G, which provides subscribers with company announcements issued by companies or the ASX in accordance with listing rules. Section 2 of this paper describes the Signal G data set. Section 3 describes the different machine learning techniques and the categorization framework that we have used to perform these types of categorization tasks. Section 4 describes the quantitative results and section 5 concludes.

The Australian Stock Exchange Limited (ASX http://www.asx.com.au/) operates Australia's primary national stock exchange. Companies listed on ASX are required under the Listing Rules to make announcements about their activities "in order to ensure a fully informed market is maintained." [1] In order to guarantee access to this information, stock exchanges such as the ASX publish all recent and historical company announcements. Thanks to language technologies such as automatic document categorization, these corporate announcements can provide new sources of valuable financial information. Historically, corporate announcements have provided valuable information to traders and the general public for decades. For this reason these announcements are used by regulators as the main tool to keep the market informed of all important events. The law assumes that these public announcements contain all the

2

Data Description
In this paper we assess performance on two tasks: "report type" and "market sensitivity" categorization. Report type is "a code to categorize company announcements" [1] and may take one of 144 values like "annual report" or "takeover announcement." Market sensitivity is a boolean category indicating whether an announcement contains information that may influence trading in the issuing company. This allows users of this data to select which announcements are critical. Currently, both kinds of category assignments on the Signal G documents are made manually by the ASX. Table 1 shows the distribution of docu-

Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

Training Test Total Table 1: Sensitivity category distribution in Signal G
100000

Sensitive 32458 14072 46530

Nonsensitive 63067 27033 90100

Total 95525 41405 136630

10000

1000

Documents per category 100

10

1

14
Categories

_1 3_ 8_ 6_ _1 10

14

1 3 8 9_ 1 6_ 6 2 0 1_ 10_ 1_1 5 5_ 4 2_

Figure 1: Report type category distribution in Signal G

the literature, enabling us to train on a larger number of documents and presumably to improve our correctness as a result. Our Neural Network architecture [5] [4] used a backpropagation algorithm that minimizes quadratic error. The input layer has as many units (neurons) as document features retained. The number of hidden units is determined by optimising the performance on a cross-validation set. There is one output unit for each possible category, with activation values between 0 and 1. For each document, the classifier will assign any category whose output unit is greater than 0.5. In our experiment, we used 3-fold cross-validation and averaged the weights of the three resultant neural networks. Each categorizer was trained on the 95,525 training documents for each task, report type and sensitivity. For the Neural Network categorizer, 13,711 training documents were set aside from the training set to function as a validation set when tuning the weights of the network. The trained categorizers were then evaluated on the 41,405 test documents. Since documents in the test set have not been used to adjust the parameters of the classifier, it is normally assumed that the performance on new data would be similar. Table 2 summarizes the general steps followed in the preparation of the experiments. TF/IDF weights are given in the notation followed by [11]. Our experimental process was as follows: 1. Linguistic dimensionality reduction: A list of stopwords [10] was removed from the document collection and the Porter stemming algorithm was applied [8]. 2. Statistical dimensionality reduction: Chi Squared or Document Frequency criteria were employed to reduce the feature vector dimensionality [8] [13]. 3. Vectorization and weighting: The resulting documents were represented as vectors, using TF/IDF weighting [11] [17]. 4. Architecture: The selected terms were used as input features to the classifier. Some of the algorithms allow several architectures, and the best algorithm was chosen by optimising the results on a cross-validation set. 5. Training: We generated a cross-validation set randomly. These documents were set aside and the Neural Network was trained on the remaining ones.

ments with respect to the sensitivity category, as well as our split between training and testing documents. Figure 1 shows the report type category distribution. Note that the report type labels are highly skewed across categories. The most common category contains 10,064 documents, while ten categories have fewer than five documents each. Signal G is available to the public, member organizations, and information vendors. Our data set was supplied by the Capital Markets Collaborative Research Centre. For future groups who receive permission from the CMCRC to work with this data, we have converted it into an XML format.

3

Methods

We have compared three machine learning methods that have provided some of the best performances in other classification tasks [16]: Support Vector Machines (SVM) [12] [6], Na¨ ive Bayes (NB) [7], and Neural Networks (NN) [5] [4]. It is not possible to describe them thoroughly in this article, so we will only summarize those issues that might be required to reproduce the results. Our Na¨ ive Bayes and SVM implementations are described in [15]. Because of the inability of our SVM implementation to handle the size of our training set, we had to only train on 8000 documents at a time in order to finish the experiments in a reasonable amount of time. The SVM was not able to perform the report type task, only the sensitivity task. Future work may dramatically improve training speed by using recently developed training optimizations in

4

Results
In evaluating our classifiers on our data set, we use the common statistical measures precision, re-

NN NB SVM Table 2: Comparative description of algorithms used

Stopwords SMART SMART SMART

Stemming Porter Porter Porter

Feature Reduction 2 DF DF

TF/IDF tfc tfx tfx

Architecture 1000 features, 50 hidden units 1000 features 1000 features, linear kernel

0.35 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 0.10 0.05 0.00 0 F1 scores By Category By Document 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 Fraction of total set

NN NB SVM Table 3: Performance for the market sensitivity task Micro Macro p r F1 p r F1 NN 0.87 0.71 0.78 0.45 0.34 0.37 NB 0.62 0.67 0.64 0.46 0.61 0.46 Table 4: Performance for the report type task

p 0.89 0.83 0.82

Micro r F1 0.89 0.89 0.84 0.83 0.82 0.82 p 0.88 0.90 0.80

Macro r F1 0.88 0.88 0.90 0.90 0.79 0.80

Figure 2: Histogram of report type results for different performance ranges as Na¨ ive Bayes perform better on well-populated categories. Similar results can be obtained for the other classifiers.

5

Conclusion

call, and F1 . [16] [14] When dealing with multiple classes there are two possible ways of averaging these measures, macro-averaging and microaveraging. The macro-average weights equally all the classes, regardless of how many documents they contain. The micro-average weights equally all the documents, thus biasing toward the performance on common classes. Since different learning algorithms will perform differently on common and rare categories, both micro-averaged and macroaveraged scores are typically reported to evaluate performance. It is important to note that the performance results are based on comparing the automatic categorization of each document with the tagging of human experts at the ASX. The manual classification is a subjective decision process affected by the ASX's legal liabilities and the normal human classification disagreements. It has been shown in various studies that there could be considerable variation in the inter-indexer agreement [3] [2]. For example, in a Reuters news collection correction rates averaged 5.16% [9] with some editors being corrected up to 77% of the time. Similar disagreements can be expected in the ASX's assignments on the Signal G corpus. In the light of these disagreements we can imagine that there might be a limit to the performance that can be obtained by automatic categorization. Figure 2 shows a histogram of classes and documents for different performance ranges using the Na¨ ive Bayes classifier. It shows how most categories that do well have large number of documents, except for some that have very few documents (fewer than 5). This shows the well-known result that the machine learning algorithms such

In this paper we have applied several machine learning techniques (Neural Networks, Na¨ ive Bayes, and Support Vector Machines) to the categorization of announcements of companies publicly traded by the ASX. Two tasks were evaluated: the categorization of documents as sensitive or not, and the categorization in one of the 144 report types defined by ASX. The results show that is possible to obtain classifiers with more than 88% precision and recall on the sensitivity task and 86% precision, 74% recall on the report type task. The results are somewhat better than the ones obtained by several researchers working on the Reuters news cable database [5] [4]. This database has fewer categories (90) than the report type task but also fewer documents (10,000). Although it is risky to try to extrapolate the results, we believe that due to the similarity in the documents, other financial databases with documents in English should also have similar performance. Future work includes testing adding statistical feature selection to the classification framework, and improving the efficiency of the algorithms so they can be used for even larger data sets. The excellent performance shows the possibility to use these classifiers in commercial applications

for both tasks, sensitivity detection and report type categorization.

Acknowledgements
The authors gratefully acknowledge financial support from the Capital Markets Collaborative Research Centre and the University of Sydney. [11] Gerard Salton and Christopher Buckley. Term-weighting approaches in automatic text retrieval. Information Processing and Management: an International Journal, Volume 24, Number 5, pages 513­523, 1988. [12] Bernhard Sch¨ olkopf, Christopher J.C. Burges and Alexander J. Smola (editors). Advances in Kernel Methods ­ Support Vector Learning. MIT Press, 1999. [13] Fabrizio Sebastiani. Machine learning in automated text categorization. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR), Volume 34, Number 1, pages 1­47, 2002. [14] C. J. Van Rijsbergen. Information Retrieval, 2nd edition. Butterworths, 2 edition, 1979. [15] Ken Williams and Rafael A. Calvo. A framework for text categorization. 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, 2002. [16] Y. Yang and X. Liu. A re-examination of text categorization methods. In 22nd Annual International SIGIR, pages 42­49, Berkley, August 1999. [17] Yiming Yang and Jan O. Pedersen. A comparative study on feature selection in text categorization. In Douglas H. Fisher (editor), Proceedings of ICML-97, 14th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 412­ 420, Nashville, US, 1997. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Francisco, US.

[10] Gerard Salton. Automatic Text Processing: The Transformation, Analysis, and Retrieval of Information by Computer. Addison-Wesley, Reading, Pennsylvania, 1989.

References
[1] Australian Stock Exchange http://www.asx.com.au/, 2002. [2] Thorsten Brants. Inter-annotator agreement for a german newspaper corpus. In 2nd International Conference on Language Resources & Evaluation, 2000. [3] R. Bruce and J. Wiebe. Word sense distinguishability and inter-coder agreement. In 3rd Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-98), Granada, Spain, June 1998. Association for Computational Linguistics SIGDAT. [4] Rafael A. Calvo. Classifying financial news with neural networks. In 6th Australasian Document Symposium, page 6, December 2001. [5] Rafael A. Calvo and H. A. Ceccatto. Intelligent document classification. Intelligent Data Analysis, Volume 4, Number 5, 2000. [6] Thorsten Joachims. Transductive inference for text classification using support vector machines. In Ivan Bratko and Saso Dzeroski (editors), Proceedings of ICML-99, 16th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 200­209, Bled, SL, 1999. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Francisco, US. [7] David D. Lewis. Naive (Bayes) at forty: The independence assumption in information retrieval. In Claire N´ edellec and C´ eline Rouveirol (editors), Proceedings of ECML-98, 10th European Conference on Machine Learning, number 1398, pages 4­15, Chemnitz, DE, 1998. Springer Verlag, Heidelberg, DE. [8] Christopher D. Manning and Hinrich Sch¨ utze. Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing. The MIT Press, 1999. [9] Tony G. Rose, Mark Stevenson and Miles Whitehead. The reuters corpus volume 1 from yesterday's news to tomorrow's language resources. In 3rd International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation, page 7, May 2002. web site.

©D Î k Í QA d 9AX'5 WH P 2G& P u6¸ W¸ H cG 2 1jU W tuW D  PUTS 0 ' !80 ) X'Xc0 c '$& ! Ù Î7 Sw  @  PUÂ k ~0 1} ' Í  Î3Õ )A '7 P #p '5 1  Ë 6  WH 2@  r9W  F Ù á u Ó à ( Ð ² x Ö Ô  ( ß ÄÐÔ ÑÓ   Î k Í} Q & '  Ýwç 2 Ü© À Û uÚ Ù SÏ7 ²Ù2ÖSß Óai é 5 á& uÓr à Î ÷ Ða& êî ß SÔÙ ÚË SÐêàI Ö0'SßXæ²Ó& Öêß) Öa¦ xÏt õ PU4± â p á ßs à ` ß m Þ ¦ Ýe Ü å Ía9 8 Ê Ë¦ ä È ÉfÕ ä D ã i¨0 ÍD g h  d@   PUÂ x ~ A I5 '4 1 r20 c '53 P '(U %q 9 9 1¦0 5 )@ ' 9A5 '& P i¤n Û )7X@ W$ 1A !'F 8 d ÇzU ) u5 Wy 1 ! ' F X)W±G 7 !¦ 2@  P8& iH i 2V& P #UD  H S 9 )7X@ 8 WH 15 2 u1WEX%WX c ¦ 10 )5 '@ P& P0 # ! '(7 %@ w 9 5 9 98$ #5 ! 9X& Wn I 8 IH ) 2@ '" 9 u7 c8 2H )¶ 2 ¶ ' Ú 0 d" 9@ 7 95 2 17 c 240 b X'@ W5 P$ 15 'p P Î k Í Q}& '@  1 8 t u)@ W@ 9 9@ '& P& I7 I© 2 PUTÙ SA 98 ' #Uru& W& ) G !@ '1 I7 8 )x 2 G  !U2U5 & P& iH i 2}8 P7 #a  ¦ 10 )@ 'A 95 '& P i Â 'E ~ Ñ¤7 ) X@ W 1$A ! ' F )RÙ QA d 1$A !k 'H ×5 & Pi ©D Î k Í Q}8 '@  1$ ' !" #" I@ 5 PU 1 )X WÂ '3 ~ w Ø U ) u5 Wy 1A ! ' F R) QA d$ 1A !k ' ×7@ & Pn i © D Î k ÍQ '@ & Æ 1 )Xg W )Uu5 W4 18 2 XiW$r!@ W@ 1H P8 2n i 8 P7 #  5 9@ 17 P 0 i5 'n P 0 P 'H i 2n i X98 W  d0  P '@ ~ 98H )2 '@ & } 1 7 S ¶ku15 WH P r2& c #H ) 2G7 P` t & '@  1¦ 1& )7 #0 0 ! !7o 2 @ ¦ 1 )X W  97 ' 75 2z 1  I8 @ $ 1 '(% t X)5 & W7 P $5 ! 9 & '5  10 B 9q ' 9U0 2 !s@ 7 1 ` 6 )RÁ QA dA 9 X'@ WA P& ' #¦ u  Iq 'U 9 28Ö60 w@ ' P8@ #y 1 !@ #5 Pk 19 " w8 IH ) R2q w 1¦0 )5 '¦ 17 ) $É ! 8 IH )o 2  9 u'5 W0 P& '¦ #Ë u  Iq ' 9U8 2 x6q w¦ 10 )5 'U 1 )U$Õ ! 0 9 'u5 W0 P& '¦ #u S 5 H 90 1q ' 9¦ 10 )5 '0 P ' j" Wy I Â k ~ 1 " '8 I X#$ c !8X)W A 9 'X@ WA P& '¦ # u& ' D  ÖdH c 24A b u'W5@ P0 1@ 'P 9 1¦0 5 ) '(& %0 # !&  IÌs  r ¤  7 SÕ  )Uu5 W4 18 2 #XH c4 2A bp ' & '@  1 7 P TS±8 9 I8 @ $ 1 '(% t X)5 & W7 P $5 ! 9 @ ' 14r25 W& P7 i5 & P& i7 ig 2 I87 ) 2 5  9 'u5 W0 P& '¦ #Æ u 8 IH )Ô 2 7 ) X@ W$ 1A ! X'uccU$ ! 1k 9@ ' Ð1   I '5 6k 1 9@ 'q 1 7 '5 tH P r2n c V 2 H S  @ % PUT± S & '@  1 X)v W A B8 9H ) 2E ' z % '&@ 1 ' rIW4 " b@  P8f i @ m 1 r9Ó W 7 ' bX@ WH 1 2X5 W j18 W )uÒ W  D Î k ÍÉ Q & '@ ± 1 7 SC  u%7 WÉ 2 & '  dAA 9& ' GU ! 2U5 & P& i7 i` 2 ¦ 10 )5 '0 P ' u" W I5 0 PU ' bz k ~ 1 @ 'A 9 '8@  1s5 '4 1 2G7 PA t@ '¦ 1 )u W @ 1 G5 9 9A$ ' !A8 !@ # 97 c 2X5 Wq 1 P78 2o i u& c )Uz  5  1ja W |~y  9G" 1 i(0 %5 'q 14 1} 2   Ñw  ÐH c 24A b u'W5@ P0 1@ 'P s  r Ï  H S  7 ) X@ WH 1 28u#7 c4 2 bÊ Î U P Th S 7 ' Xb@ WH 1 X25 W 1j& W )R|Q  Î k Í QÌ7 P TS Iq  ' r9W0 b" ' I 1¦A )E ' %X5 W0 P ' i 0Ë ' & '  v d 4 ~&  ) cX@ W 1¦& ) #  97 'H t 2 #7& t7 ) X2c 8 G !@ #É 9 5 '4 1 28X#H c4 2A b 'f@ g 1   2Æ ~ @ 7 9 2 'f& Ê ) 0 )0 ' ' 6 7 98 2É  @ 'A P '&@ 1 A P7 ' b0'4 ~&   A BA 9& ' GU ! 2U5 & P& iH ip 2 7 c4 20 b 'X@ W5 P 1$5 'È P )Uu5 W4 1V 2 5 % P7T" S X)È W I8H )2 @ '7 98 27 65 2H 1& 2 I38 '@ V 1 A ) '0 'k ~$ 1 '6 " ' rI W ub& W3 I & '5  1}U '" t XI5 W& P 6@  1" 1 i(0 %@ '@ 14 12  Ç 3 4  }k YD Q Æ  9U 2 G8 !@ # 9f 97 'H t 27 #& t7 ) X2 c H c4 2A b 'u5 W@ P0 1@ 'l P ( ' %7 F d k1uWu7 7 c8 2 #¦ u 0 P 'q ~ 9H )w 2 H S  7 ) X@ WH 1 28X#H c4 20 b¶ ' 0 P@ '8 9p # @  1 )Uu5 W 14r20 c5 'Å P )uW BAA 95 '& P@ #7 9 2E ' © % uc7 c0 2A !5 ' P Ä7 ) Xq W r9$ W !@ '& P± i U& t7 #5 & P5 v 1 G 90 P 'q ~8 97 )x 2 & '5 a 1 H S t X) & W& H )G 2V P '7Xb@ W$ 1A ! '$ q ' 7 )`  & t X)q W 9 #$" ! T S r9WG 7 !¦ 2@ 8 P& iH i 2ÁH c 24A b u'W5@ P0 1@ 'P U ) u5 W4 1V 2 @ % PUT" S X) W8 ' º { dU ) u5 W 145 20 1@ ' P8@ iA P@ ' 1¦u) W @ A P& '¦ #© u 1UA ) u'0 Ww ! Ã$ ' I8H )2 'UH t 28U #& tH ) r2c5 0 P& '¦ # u 8 '@  1H So  )7Xq W5 9A 95 '& P" i $ 'H S  0 P ' ~4 w i '8@ q 1 7 ) '57 P(  Â % 9A5 '4 1 2G@ P¦ 1 )00 '8 !7 ) 0x ! I87 )w 2 @ A P& '¦ #v u & '@ E 1 @  1 9& ' G5 !H 1V 2  %$ 1 !7& 2 $' X)WV I@ 'q 1 9A5 '0 P@ '¦ 1 X) W 9XV W G  !U2U5 & P& iH i3 2 q 'U 9 28H 6G 24 1& 2 I3& ' Á { d )7X@ WH 18 2 X#H c4 20 b'

À8" ¾¦ ¿¦ ¿º ¾8 ¹7 ½E ¼ H { ¡V » ¦ ²A ¡U   ¡º ° ¹ X®r£¯¦$ ®G G ¨ ¦  ¨ ¬ ¹H · ¡ ¤ ¢ ·8µ  ¹ ²¨ry £ ¦¸  ´  ²8 ·¶ µ  ¥ r¤y £ ¨¨  ´& ² ³ ¨87 ¤x ¡  ² 8    ± °  ¤ u®y £ ¦ X®¦ ¯0 ®5 G ¨ ¦  q ¬ y ª ¨7y «  ¡y ª© ¨ §v  " ¦ ¥ r¤ £ ¢UH ¡ ¡8  $   5  1G 7 ! 2U5 & P& i7 i 2l¦ 10 )5 '0 P 'u" W I @ A P7 ' b  2 7 I8 2  qr9H c 2 U ' b8 2 9 u'W5j18  W )& # ( % 7 %0  !  k ~ 1 & ' 3  d¨A I ' u65 W P$5 !A 9& ' I '@7 P 2 & t X) W &H )G 2s P @u1Wa~ ) X@ 7 WH 1 2V@ %U P T" S u) W H c 2G& P #@$ 18 !5 #@ Pq 1 9& t X)& W )X& W 6 U %$ o ! 7 P T` S  9 '&G 7 ! 2¦@ & P i8H i2 cG H 20 PU '0 b@ ' 98A  a  95¦ 10 )( ' & %0 # !  ys  r }8 t )u& WG G !H P 2 'q 9 8 IH ) 2 & t X)W"$  '"8 I X)W S H  0  '75 b P&@ # 9¦ 10 )$ ' ! '@ P p 2 R)QA dA 98 ' u)WU& t0 ) ' G 5 !7 PA 2 '@n 9 A I@ ' 978 2 x6q w 10 @ '1 & t X)@ W 98h # 95¦ 1A ) 'E8 % #$" ! " I H Sh  8 9 )UuW5q 1 PU  i 8 I7 ) 2 95¦ 1A )E ' 8 %$ # !"" I & i #x wA IU '@ 7 P 2( % SHs  H c4 20 b 'X5 W@ P$ 1 '5P  1$  '@1 8 IH ) 2 &@ A P '&#   9 U 2 G  !8@ #f 9  97 '7 t 287 #& t )7X2 c 5 0 P8 'U # u  6A I '@@ 17 P & i i&@ # |95 2H 1 2&I I5 A '& P #@$ 18 ! #5@ P 1qx9uwW(0 %@ 'g 9 s3 r   H Sm  & t u) W5 0 P '&¦ #z u X' ck  1kR9$ w@ '7 9 2H 65 2H 1 2&I AA 9& ' GU ! 2U5 & P i&H i¤ 2 IU2U5 & P 6V k ~w 1 @ ¦ 1 X)W}r9uc7 c |2{ S7 c 2A b u'W5@ P0 1 '@z P s  r  d& A 9 I0 '& 'y ) 7 ) X@ WH 1 2(5 % P7TS&u)x W A I5 '4 10 2 r!@ W 1qr9& W&  i7@ w 9 X7 c& t X)WqU 9A 25 '$ P8 ! X)W vA5 9A Pq ' 9s # @ 17 P  i&& i@ #9 @ 1  I '@XP& W¦ #A u5 't P '5H Ps 2 V 9 %qr9W&7 )8 2G A !( ' % c7 2A b u'W5@ P0 1@ 'q P 0 P '5q 10 1 '` 6  9q 'U 9A 2 '5$ P8 ! X)¤ W G 90 P@ ' 98p # @o 1 X'& c7 6 X2XcWH4 2 bn 2 5 2H 1 2&I I5 A '& P #@$ 18 ! #5@ P 1qx9uwW(0 %@ 'm 9 H Sl  k  j1" W$  X'& c i(7 %0 h ! 8 IH )g 2 'E8 % u#U c7 f b 8 '@ 1 9 e dU7 U t uU c&  )&G A !5 ' 1 H c4 20 b X'5 W@ P 1$5 ' P 10  '@ 1 8 IH ) 2 @ '7 9 2H 65 2H 1 2&I 5H 1  6H S @ '8 9 #& '5  1 A 97 ' Xb7 cU  b u) W 0 B 9G¦ 10 )( ' & %$ #" ! " I   r H S 98)Uu5 Wy 1 ! u'Xc7 c0  !7 9 2VG 8 !@ #7 9& BG 24 1& 2E I A I5 '& P #5y 18 !5 # P@q 1 x9uw( W 0 % '@v 9 t&u)U WH t8 27 )s 2 r fq fe d g p&r É ÍD i ha& g ÊsÉ U c4 H 20 b X'W@5 P 1$a ' Y`7 ) X@ WH 1 2V@ %U P TS"R)" Q0 B8 95 I7 P 2&8 IH )G 21F 1A ¦ )E ' %8$ #" !D  C  A BA 9@ '7 98 2 675 24 13 2  ¦ 10 )( ' %&$ #" !       © ¨ §¦ ¥¤ £ ¢

â¡ c Ø ×r Ñ (Ðøf(ÐÄÙâÔÌ Ð£ ß × Ö êÏÄö(Ö¼ åÌ Ø úî7Ùß # ës ß êÏ é! å SÏÓm ¡ ßÌ Ó ìî ù Õ SÖSÏÕc6 Ó QÓSÔ(ßÓa7ë# Ñ úîw Û êÏ  ÷a õ Ð Ö ÙQ ²ÙÖ7ÕSßÐÄa Ó (ÔÑ SÐÖSà²ëÖ7Ùxß(ëSÔãâSÖa Ó ÕÑ s ÔÐ SéÙ  â x ( Ð â 7 â é  ë ( Ö Õ Ð Ó Ö î ì Ó f ß S Ó ë é x SÏ Ù§ âãâa ß Ï(ÐêØ(ÔxÖa (ÔQÑÌ Ða ÑÑ Qþi Ð ãâs SáSÓr àô ²ÐÖxÔßQÐý Ôc × f êÏÖÕ ßa ë é 7Õr Õ ÄÐÔsSÏé7Ù(ß¾ ëa SÔÔxßÙâ Ú ßêæÖù  Ï Ð (ØÔ (Ð×°Øaÿ Ïâ a à Ð Ï Ó à Ñ Õ Ï  â Ø Õ Ó Q Ó Ñ Ðf ß ÄÙêÏêÔù Ö hÖa Ù° ß(Ïü ²âß Ñ (Ø °ÐßSßÐr Ó ²ÕYÖß 7ëÄÙ(ÐÔr føÙQä Ôz r Ñr Û Óû  ÷ Äö  õù Ðc Ì î×SÖ  ôc (ìSÔ²âa  ß¢ Ï Ð Ð Ø âY×ÐÌÓÄúî7Ôß Ú ß ÐfuÓSßÏ(àQÓ Ð ²Ð Ø Ù Õ  Ù ß Ð Õ Ù × Ö ð  Ï S Ô ×  à á Öxs Ô(é(ßYëÄÐÔ SÏSÔ²Ùó ÖSß Ó ²â ØxSÔÏÙ YÚØs êÏÖ éhëÙcò SÏÙ Úñ 7Õ(Ðuâf 7ÓêÏå  ãâQÓÖ ï ØcêÏ×YÖSÖà ÕSáÓÄSÙSÔa a Ó êÏÖ Ñ â Ù Ð è Ð { (æÔÐa âÐ êî S Óß7c åÙrfÓ ßÏ Sc Ó í Õc ä âì fÓq ã Ö Sß áÓ Õz S SÓ(à7Õ²ÐÐÄxÖs ÔÔ é(ß(ßÐÄa Ôë xéÔß7m Þ Ý °âêæ ÜÖ " W Û(ØÐ6 ÚÙ Ú} Ø×f×êÏSÖSÖc c Õ xçQÓ(ÔSÔa Ó (éÒ a Ñl Ð Sá# r ÏçxßÎâ r É ÍÌ Ës Êc Éy È¼ Ç Æ rXfr n ufVHcS`m P Å udÄVc j `Ãa  SuPc V dStf n Qdc Hr Vq X gQc sr d I   Â f9  9 9    hº  hY  f    r   2 Á  rm ¯9 ©9 §Sf ®  ¸  uh   hr  %  xU » §% ¶r¥r ¿ ¦9 «f ¤f | ¢w x´Yh  ±% m ¾ ½ xªh  I  °'  r§rur ´ h ³ Y9 %  %  r¼ ª 9 9  ¯rÀ  ¨f U '   » a U    £    u%  ¡x ¯   % º  W r  0  9  S| c p r  hu(  fI ¯9 ©% §f ¹ ¥h ®  l¶9YI § 9 #  r ´   u  9¯h|  '  §  s  ®z r ³ | ¢ uc d r  ²±h ¡ 9 |  s %  ¸§ h( ·  x  µx % z U  r h   }  hf  % | x a  uhf ¯9 © §h% ®  l ¥ Y¬  « ª% ©9 § ru# r ¨ ur  f § 9¦rhr ¥ h ¥ ¤   ¢£  ¡h  g  °f9  r  Y  9h m      xw z ' % Yf     '  9   |  x dz 2   y   r X Y~  fH}g d% | ` fa H {RefHzU y c V xdc j dwv 9 d uduVjc `a  SuPc V d tUQd H Vrq X Qgscr d I  q p a   #I op nm  `Sl d r % Xk 4 da s  S`Qd H fjri X h g r  Xfe 9 d a e   I   VI  Vc d tr X YdI e  g  fa Hy Rr bx Xw v uts H qrp X i hgfec e dc ba ` YXW VU T SRPQI HG F ED " ¤ C B @A9 8 7! & 6 54 32 10 ) (' &% $# "  !      © ¨§ ¦ ¥ ¤ £ ¡¢ 

5 A 9¦ 10 )8 ' )7 E i %U$ ! X)H W 2V%Â  ~kÁ 1A 9" ' I8X#c$ ! u)Ë W A %@ 'q 1" 9q } 9 & '5 D 1 a Ø5 '& P #Uut W§ s u )E W a ) 4 ~& @ Á 9D 9 e ä8 Ê& ir É Í" ä Éfp å8a Í¼ Ê Æ Ü  dx4  {  d7 cD 2 $ 1y ' )7@ 5 9@ 10 P ' 67a  Y  x 6 A I '7 i X0 c 'U0 b" 'I U ) u5 W 1y8 !8 ) T#S37 Û Ø r$ } & WH i4 2  ç & '@  1¨7 SÉ  5 % P7Tw S A I8 ' xw" W" I ( % X@ c¦ 17  XtXWq c9 2 9r¦  WH  tV   Iq '8 9} # X2& c # @ % PUT S0 '8 !H )4 2 b0X'0 c5 '{ P P7X2& c0 # X!5 Wq 17 P8 2 i©8 ' ¸ 7 d5 ' P70 @ !9 0 '8 !H )4 20 b 'X0 c5 'D P 8 '@  1H SÁ  r9@ W7 9 286 & '@ ( 1 )UV  0 )& '5 E 1 8 IH )w 2 G  !G4 1V 2  % 5 0 P& '¦ #u ' @1u)WV & 9 @ %A P@ ' 1( H )V 2 p % 4 ~8 ¸ H S  r9q W 9U8 26 8 '@ w 1 )U q 1G 98 P9 w ¨ BA I5 'q 1U Pq 9 'H 5 Px 2 5 9¦ 10 ) '(& %0 # !& n I A I& ' GG !4 1 2Vs % & '5  1  Iq '5 9A 90 ' !5 & Pp i A )0 ' '` 6 7 ' b 28 ( 9 5 % P05 ' 15 0 P8 ' #UÙ u XcH c 2 0 P@ ' Ð1S}D e ÖdH c4 20 b X'@ W5 P$ 15 ' P¤8 I7 )x 2 & t X)" W$ " '8 I X)WVG 24 1& 2I 4 w5 2 10'(x %  IH )2  1 $5 ' 1 wuXc& c T# SA 9& ' X)& W 6 %7$ 3 ! x1QÖd4  ØV  & ' X)7 W t8 )` Î G5 !7 PA 2'F @ ' X95 W& P5 i0 P5 ' 1U© ) Î r!@ W" 1U i& H ) 2Á§  & '5 © 1 S7  5 '7 P0  !(8 '@  1 X9 WH  tÕ  } Î Y3D  ¨ e Þ  q d     Æ  d08 9 )Uu5 W4 1G 2 1j( W X%uWc¨7 c 2X5 WU 1A )@ '7 1 i I7 8 )D 2 9Gj1& c@ #A 95 ' P '8@  1 @ ' 9 XH c 2H ) 2 A )& '@ y 1 8 I7 )D 2 9GU 1A )( ' & % #$" !"  I sr   1ja 5 W3 ~ H c 2" ' I @  1 ÖB  tl  Î}Y  e¨  BU& ' u)WU& t0 )n ' GG !H P 2q 'q 9 q ' r95 W P&@ iA P@ '1 w0 " )` ' @ '8 9 #7&  x" w )XW(& P #7  8 I0 )5 ' 1$ o ' @  1 97 2z ~ GU ! 2U5 & P& i7 i( 2 8 P# ç d 0 9 u'5 W P75  j1@ WU 9 0 i5 'E P 5 2H 1& 2± I sr  0 P 'U4 b 8 9 )7X@ WH 10 2 r!Wu8 c i&H i2   631¦0 )@ ' 93A 9 X'@ WA P& '¦ #` u 5 ` 1 A I@ ' 9U& i iU 9UE 2 'X& cU i0  ' i 7 %5  TPS} 9 'u5 W0 P& '¦ #u r!@ Wq 1 r9uW7 c 2A5 ' PÁ0 P 'q ~ 987 )w 2 H )A 2Â !4 1 285 Ó 1 A %@ 'q 1" 9q  9 Â 27 P TÙ S 9GU 1A )( ' 0 %5 ' Pu& W¦ # u@ 'P '@ & o 1 TSu@ W¦ 1 )0& ' XI¶ W @ o 1 I87 ) 2 9G¦ 10 ) '(& %$ #" !"  I sr  H S ±7 ) X@ W$ 1A ! X'uccU$ ! 'U@ t P72X± c 2@  1ua W ~s'$ !0 ) X'@ WA P '" i $n ' X)H W¦ 2z t 5 V 1 97 2w ~ 9G¦ 10 ) '(u%5 W0 P '" i $' GG ! PHA 2@ ' 9R¨ w sr3  © D Î k Í3 Q & '@  1 u)W& t u)5 W4 18 2 Xi$ W r!@ W@ 1H P 2 i X)Õ W %XH W 2& P# ç fä ã È äÉ c Ì à8 ß  ` Þ U Ýe      p Êv ä     ä Ê 5g ¸ h ä¦ Èi ¸ ã" É ÈÕ d5 A 9¦ 10 ) '(0 % X'0 ca '¦ 10 )8 ' )7 E i %U$ ! I7 8 ) 2 & t X)" W8 I& ) #U@ 5 P& P@ # 9 U 9 2 cX0 c ' ~ 9U 2 9GU 1A ) '(0 % X'0 c ' A PÂ '@ ~8 9 )7z 2 @ 7 1 6 t X)W@@ & 9 9q '5 97 9 2fPUT S  Ðf( × ÄÓÔ(SÐSà7Ùë (ßc ë Ó ÄþÐ 51 ÐY×ÄÓ(ÔuÐ à ÙQ¬ ë  Ù ÄÐÏ Ô '7 7 '4 ! ¦ 10 %$ !" I S7V A 9A '@ 'U P t0" 'y I & P7 # TS8 I7 ) 2V  ß Ï S Ó S à  Ð ( á 1 a %5  TPÐSo  $ ' !H )4 20 b 'X0 c5 'D P H S  A 9 X'H cA 2@ ! R9@ w& P7 # TS ç á t uî52×PAÖ7 î b $@` ß ) Ï '( uÓà(& Ð (á# " ÄÐÔx êÔ Ö 7 IAU ' ubcU7  bX)n W 5 9¦ 10 )( ' @ %@ 9 9q '5 97 9Õ 2 q ' 9& '  A d0 9 r!& WU i@  1  ¤ t & ' 5± 1 H S A '@ '8 P@  1  Iq '5 9A 9@ '5 97 9 28 i7 #5 7 P t& P# ç H d r!& W7 i5 q 1 H c 28X)W7Xt@ WU PÏ  '&@ 1 I '@4  1 r2& c # @ % PUT} S &  Xuc7 c8 2@ #8 9 T#7 I8 2`  & a q ~ & i #U@  PUx t & t X)@ WH 18 2 iX$ W r!@ W@ 1H P 28i '@ &  1  6 0 ) 'UH 5 2@ 1 P0& ' I8& )# @ '7 P2  D Î k Í Q X)Æ W 5 9¦ 10 ) '(@ %@ 9 9q '5 97 92 0 '8 !H )4 2 bAu'A ca ' x Y ¨ d Iq '5 9A 9@ '5 97 9 2  '¤ 6 @ q 1 I" 'A IA '& ' ) 4 1 2@ E 1 r!& W7 i5 ¶ 1 GU !A 2' P TS 5 7 9¦ 10 ) '(A % 'uA c' A PÂ '@ ~8 9H ) 2 I8H )5 28 97 #8 @ x 1 Â k ~1 7 PE  & '7 )¶  0 )A 'Â 'k ~0 1 '6 Sº H 7 c   i(2@ ¦ 1 )Xx W  I& ' X)& W 6 U % $!s0 )8 '@  1 5 '0 P ' ~8 9& i #75 7 Pº t uc7 cg 2 %U@  TPS 9G0 P '@ ~8 9H ) 2s& '   ` d 0 %@ 'q 1" 9q y 9 uPA W& '@  1z w 6 k 1 9& '7  Xt& W  A I7 ' 8H )G 2V P 7 92 9 1¦)0'(0 5 % X'c0n ' A PÂ '@ ~8 97 )É 2  ¤©    ¢ 7 i5  1Å& '@  1 @ Ô 1 & i |# I& '5 ) P&@ #0 1@ 'P 9& i7 #5 7 Pt & t )X@ WH 1 28XiW$r!@ W@ 1H P8 2i 8 '@ 1 H B r!& W iU@  1 G7 ! 2 ' P78 s d¦  1 )0( ' 0 % X'0 c '0 P '@ ~8 9H ) 2 & '5 y 1 )u& W5  1ja W ~ 5 '0 P& 'a   ~ H )a 2 P7A 2 ' i&H i2 1¦U  utW(} % 8 95 I PUÂ  ~31UA )@ '¦ 1 )70 E ! 8 '@  1 @ '7 9A 2 ! Gr!& Wa   ~ X) W B 1¦u)7 W5 2 P5k 18 9 )U$ !  Q ¡! 7  z Q @  ! 7  & 2 " 17 #8 @  u1a Wq ~ P7A 2 '& iH iÏ 2 H )A 2 ! 5 9¦ 1A )E ' A % 'uA c' P '  d7$ ' !0 )5 '0 P T'S$5 ' P & '5  1f& t X)& W )XH W 2GU 1 )U$ ! X'c$r!@ W@ 1H Pf 2 & '5 z 1 7 S Å7 P& 5 " 1H #2 ) 2±7 7 1& q ) X9o W Ð1H S5 Â P ¥ $ '8 !5 # Pr } H 18 2@ ¶ 1 A 95 ' XP& W¦ #A u5 'Å P I87 )0 A !@ 'n 9 '&@ 1 BA1¦)0( ' %Au'cA ' X!& W8 H iG 27 P t7XWX& c u68 W 6 & '5 ¤ 1 )uD W 5 9U P& @ & 1H # 28 '@ Ù 1H S  & '7 )D  X9W 1Ð7 S @Â P ¥~$ ' !@ # P }§4 18 25  1  9@ ' PX& W¦ #A u5 'E P q 1G 98 Pd w '8@ 1 { G 9 1¦u)7 W5 2 P5k 18 9 )U$ ! G8 !@ #Ó 9 H S f5 9 XPH W 2 i  k ~ 1 @ '7 P 25 '0 P& '5  1 X'& c i(H %& 2$ l ' & '@  1 )uW y G Q c  & 7   985 9U 1 )A( ' %0X'0 c 'H P r2& c$ # r!@ W@ 1H P 2x i )X W  I& ' X)H W5 2¦ 1 )U$ ! @ '7 P© 2 P I PUÂ ~ Q ¡! 7  8 1¦)A@ ' 1¦7 )0  !& '5  1zH 18 2@ Õ 1 TSu$ WA ! '@ i 9 G 9 1UA )( ' 0 % 'X0 c'  '  d5 7 0 P& '¦ # u & '5  1 )X W  Iq '5 9A 95 '& P" i$ y '  I0 '& ' )y7 ) X@ W1 wHV 2 @ % PUT" S u)W & '@ © 1 1$0 ' '( % uA cq '¦ 9 u0 cÂ !k 1 9¦(  © %4 18 25  1ÁG 9 1UA ) '(& %$ #" !"  I 8 t )uW " w G5 !H 1 2(%f7 %5  TP S5 9¦ 10 )( ' A % u'A ca ' 7 P}  ¦ 1 )0( ' 0 % X'0 c` ' 7 )y 2 5 )& P@ #0 1@ 'y P rI& c7 #8 q 9 0 %5 'k 1" 9@  97 c 2A b u'5 W@ P 10@ ' P & '@  1sA I8 ' wx$ W ! '@ i3 9 7 9 2D ~ $ 1 'U@ t7 P5 2w 1 8  ) 5 '0 P& 'a  ~

A 9 X!W87 i@  17 P& v s 7 d X'c$r!@ W@ 1 PHw 2 7 ) 27 S(  I80 )' & '@ Á 1H 1V 2 A I '5k 1 r9uW cA 9$ ' !0 )5 '0 P T'$ S5 'P '@ 8  1Æ7 %5  TPy S @ 5 PU 1A ) ' r!& W &7 i5 2 PU7 t XWu& c X6W& 6 & '7 ) 8 9 X)H W 25¦ 1U )$ v ! U 1A )( ' 0 % X'0 c' { h Q  x D x  1¦0  !7 G 2' | ) '(A % u'A c ' & '5 w 1 r9w W $ 1U '@ t7 P 25s 1 8 '@ ¤ 1 f ¢ '5& PU # ut Ws X)z W a ) 4 ~& @ x 9 'X& c( i H % 2&$ ` ' & '5  1 X)W y r!W&7 i5  1& ' 5E 1 7 P T S 5 G 9U 1A )( ' 0 % X'0 c' i  '& P T U  1UA ) '(0 % X'0 cÂ '0 17 '5 t PHG 2v 1  2A 9 '8xw$ W ! '@ i 9 1¦A )E ' A % u'A c ' Q&!¡  Q 9! &  c i 6 % ¡ W  & Q ¡! 7  '@ y 1 X)W&@  1ua W ~5 9¦ 1 X)H WG 2@ P 1q8 97 )0 Â ! & Q &¡ i  & I )HÂ  2¦ H t 2G1 & ' 5( 1 ¦  6y I '8zw0 WA ! 'q i 9 9U|2 ß ÏÏ Ð (Ø(ØÐÐ áá# Ða ßßf ßd °ÓÏSß 7Ùë @7 1  67 P A P& '@  u10 Ww ' x 6 A I& ' )k w " ' I 97 2G 9y 1A ! ' i@7 92 ß  Ð Ðr Ð (Ï×°ÐÔ c5 7 2& P5 # 1y8 !5 #@ P 1qÅ 9 @  1ua Wy ~ 90r!W&7 i5  1  ¤q Ñ '50 P 'n ~ A I8 ' u)7 W 255 P 1k8 9U )$ o ! @ 'U P¤  r dU@ A P& ' #¦U u7 c 2A b u'5 W@ P0 1 '@ P 7 ) X@ W4 1 2V5 %7 P T" S X)7 W c78 27 ) X@ W 1¦A )7 ' b7 )0 ! E 2 u)º WV 9 %@A P@ '1 h y Q9h  c i 6 % D W  ' 5 0 5 P '8U #v u & ' 5 1 5  1(8 IU ) @ iA 95 ' P@U P $ ! q ' 9& 1 X)& W @u1a W~ Q c  ! 7  & 9¦ G 1 )0( ' 0 % X'0 c' P '5  1 & t X)q W8 9# S I8 A ' xw$ W ! '@ i9 â' ÄÕ@SÔ1 Ù ¡ a ß (Ï°Ð ß SÏ7Ùë & u& c )UÁ0 9 r!& W iU@ 3 1 ¡   Ñ q ' 9& ' @ 1 SD© ç dHr!W&7 i5 3 1 w 2 G 8 ! #q¨ 9H SD  u'& c( i 7 % 2"0 ( ' H )2 r9 W  ¢ @ ' P&U # ut W sv0 d 9& i #75 7 P( t t&X)@ WH 18 2 ui0 W X!5 Wq 17 P8 2v i '&5 V 1 x 6  I '@@ 1 j1W(& % 6&@ #9 ' 9U& @  5Ì 1 %U@  TPS¶A I5 ' 1y ! u'A cq ' 9V5 '0 P 'v ~ 0 9 r!& W7 i5  1x¡   u t 0 P '8@ $ 1U '7 t 5j17 cq 2  IH )2 A B0 9 r!& WU i@ ¤ 1 U P Ty S 8 9 )7X@ Wq 1A 9U '7 t& t@ #Ë 9 A I5 'q 1 u1W(& %& 6 #@ 9 i&U #@  PU t G 7 !© 2Î  ¢ r !& W7 i5  1 Î k Í QU  ¢ '@& PU # ut Ws
Q¤9 7  % e¡& ' ¡ W h F  d  ` @ b h B y Q P ¡ # & 8 "¤h ' ¤  ¤ v !¡ p  y  i ¤ 9  '!9 " r V  2 U 2 d  o q i99  ! ' "9 V ¡7 u & " d 2  Q P ¤ # 8&¤ " ! ' 9  v¤!¡ p  Q &c &  6 % ¤ i !9 " ¤ " !¡ b  y  2 9¤ o  796 % 9 i "¤i  !9  i   9 ' $ # ¤ " 'h¤  i u   h9   i 9  'h¡ ( 'i¡ W h E b9 # e % 9 i 9  '&9 " V !¤ " h9r  h # 9¤¤ 7 6 % i¤ " e  c  ! ' ¤ " i  vDP  ¡ ( '9 8 & i h 7 !   " i9¤  h x ¤ 8  u ! ' c  #n¡h # h9  m W l 2 9 i 9  ! ' "9 V D7 u & " d 2 f  #9% # ¤ $ " h ' 9i u h9  i9   ' h¡ (  ' !¤ " h9    9¤  796 % i9¤ "  i¤h  9  iac  ! ' ¤ " f  h # D6 % 9 " & i ¡ ( f¤ 7  %   e¡!  9 " ¤ A D ' %hP  © x  % x x9 x !9 i ! 8 (¡k # h j %P '  8 9¤9 7 6 % 9 i ¤ "   9a ' i¡¡#  9 i  ' i 9 #  % 6 # ¡ ( '¡i 7   ¡6 %   h # c  !c i g %  i ¡ ( !¤  9  Q!c  6 % ¤ i &   " "¤!  ¡ b  Q ¡ P ( D ' $ % & i @ e 6 %  " 9 7 h # !¡ T  y  2 D76¡ S ( !¤ " 9  ! " h9  i A @ (  % (@P % &  i&¡ ( ¡ ' g 7 ¤ " heDh  e h9 i 9   ' ¤ " h ' ¤i u h9   i ¤ i h ' (f9 # e % 9 i 9  '&9 " V !¡ " h    9 i 9  ! ' ¤ "  V ¡7 u & " d   2   & v  x $ #   ¡ " h '   ¡ " '& # ¡6 h 7 (¡&¤ " &9  ! " 9 7 %9  ¡ e !   " ¤ A  ' h % P  @ x  %  x &¤  D6 %  " i¡  P Q ¡ (  ' 6 % & i @ e 6 % c "  7 #h!¡ T  Q 9! &  c i 6 % ¡ W  y  & Q D7! y  u ¤   y   ¤  & Q D7! Q c P  & 7 y¡6  i9¤  ! ' 9 "  V ¡7 u & "    2 5  ¤ i 'hD ( P Q @  7! & Q D7! y  u ¤  P y xD x & Q D7! Q c h  7! y h  i¤9  ! ' 9 "  V ¡7 u & " §  2D  P Q @  7! Q !¡ & i 9 y P  xD x & Q &¡ i  Q&¤h  c i 6 % ¡ W  Q 6  0 G G @ 4  0 )9h ' D ( F! i 7 u t 0 ! 6 C w9© V  0 )9h9 e 9 v ¡ i h F  v ¤ " ¤ 0 @ 6 s  1  0 ) 8 ! % F¤9 7  % ¡ e '&r i 9 7  % D e ! ' ¡ W h F  d 9 ` c b Bh Q  @ 0 & 8 9 i q 8p 2 #9 7  % ¡ e & ' ¡ i h F ¤  h© ( ¤ % 0  g `¡ W ! C X¤f C 7¤ % e¡! ' ¡ W ! F d ` c b a B 9 `  Y X9 W ¤ V ! E TUS R  Q9  09P 1 F&¤ I  H  G G9 F  E CD¤ B  0 )& A @ ( $ % 9 8 ¡ ' $ 7 ¡ ( 065 43 2  1  0 )!¡ (  ' & % $ # ¤ " !    ¡  

dU y  ÛU¤ ¨ © ¨ ¢§$ ' ! u)W@a 9 987 ) X@ WH 10 2 r!uW8 c 6&& #i k  1$X'$ W" !F A P '@" 1 #8E i U %Â ¦ ¥ Î©Â Îk Î Qpu)w W A 9 X'$ c r!@ W 1@H P± 2 ¡   ¤    & B Ø£ ¢ & 17 # H 62 PUT} S  9$ ' !G& P7 #@  9 sr |(5 9¦ 10 ) '(& %0 # !&  I  r Â  S7  )UuW5y 1A ! X'Xc7 c$  !y2 )7  5A 9 X!W87 i@  T1  " 9 @7 95 2© 1 cH4 20 b X'W5@ P 1$5 '} P H S  A 9 X'@ WA P 'q¶ 9  2 t&X)WH 5 2 1@0 P& '8 I& )# XIc57 P  ~¤& '5 ± 1 8 I& )U #@ 7 P 2 7 % 5TP S 8 9& i #75  P7q t ¡   z Û uc5H P 2& ' )  97 ' Xb7 cU ¦ b X)W

' @ & 1H Sy  & t )X¦ W8 H ) 2Gw P & '@  1 PUTy S & t u) W& 7 )5 2 P D Î Y  ¨ eS  H c r2@ W u1& W X)V W '&@ 1 Sy H  @ '8 9 #(0 P@ '@ 1$ 1 ' 6 'UH  2V % rI& c7 #0  !(H 1 28@  1 A 9 X'7 WA t@ '4 1G 2@ Pq 1V 9 U 1A )@ 'A P 'u" WI 8 " I5 # 1kÅ 9 5 q 1 5 9¦ 10 ) '(7 %7 t5 2 PTq S G 9¦ 10 )( ' & % #$" !"  I X)É W )Uu5 Wy 1 ! 'uXc7 c0 p ! '&@ 1 j1XW& c@ ip 9 @  1A I& ' IX0 WA !" ' I  'n ~  F d0G 9 1UA ) '(0 % X'0 c± ' @ 'U 9& 5  1 t8u) W& 7 ) 25P P T 7 S 70 t5 '4 1G 2@ Pq 1q 9 q 15 9 PUÂ  ~& '5  1 r9q W 5 9¦ 10 ) '(& %0 #" !" Ë I A I 'U& H )G 2 P '&@ 1 %5 7  TPV S BA8 9& H iG 27 P7 t5 2 P78 2z i PUz   9 )7X@ Wy 1 !q ' 9 7 9f 2 G  !q #` 9 0 B 9G¦ 10 ) '(0 % X'0 c' t X)W@$ & 1 !7G 2@ P 1 $v ' H 18 2@  1}A 9@ 'H 15 25 Pk 1 97 ) (0 %" ' IH  ¨ 7 )@ 8 9 u) W Xucn W v Ú ` d A % '&@ 1 &  )HG 2Ô P 8 IH ) 2 5 9¦ 10 )( ' & %0 #" !" Ó I & '5 n 1 y 1A ! X'0 c@ ' 9f5 1 } Î 3 Y D  ¨ e 7 ) 9AX'WucA@ ' P %A@ 'q 1 9@  9 & '5 É 1 & B Ø @ '& P #Uut W s u) W A I ' 6X@ W0 P@ ! 9" ' I D 9 e ¡ f& #  ÈÉfÕ Ì ä D ã ¨ i0 Í} g h} ä & åÉ ' p É Éfqp& %   $ 0 d 9A!X8 W7 i@  1 © D Î k ÍÙ QH Sv   ' ik  1 & '@  1 I8H )Ó 2 a     & '5  1 A )7 ' Xb7 Wt 0 B 9 'u5 W0 P& '¦ # u¤H c 2@ #y 1 !Un 2 7 P TÕ S @ 7 P@ 25 9A 9 '0A !& ' ) 'f 6 rI& cU #Â  ~ ¦ 17 & tU # &@ 1 ucA7 ' bX@ W u1& W@ # 1¦X)W} ' ~4 18 2a  v ~ 5 Ù 1U 9& t )X& W& i7 iV 2 } % & '@ E 1  I@ ' 1u( W u%WX} c q ' Ú  c ( ! #  8 Q ¡  (¤¡   ¦ d QD IH )2  9H tG 2 1 '&@ 1 i 9  & ' 9 " q V ¥  v q ¡7 u & "  ¥  7 t&X)5 W7 P&  )Uutv W B9 9 2ÉA I" '$ " ' I u)n W Ð1H S 5Â P ¥ I7 8 ) 2V" 0 ' !8@ # P }!  u)3 W 1j8 cq # 9@ ' P uccXa W } ~ 9¦& t X)& W& iH iV 2 a %  97 # XW¦A b@ '8 P i & ' 
Q u 9  y9 Q ¡   c ( ! # 9 y h9 i 9  ! ' "¤¤ V Q¡  c ( & #  Q ¡¤ 6 ( ¤ y   ¡7 u & " §   2 D   Q ¡  (¤¡ Q 6  0  i #$c " P % @  09 ) ¡7$¡ ( u¤t D# u ¤

Query

//bb[contains (.,"croft")]

projection

b:Croft !a:Croft

selection

final answers output

answers = ranked list of full and/or split docs

extractor

full

Padre

split

 X'& 7 c i(H %& 2 $Ù '7 P 8s A d 9U7 t5 2 Ö1" w& 6@ # 9  I '& i7 iV 2 & %& ) #@ ' PU& 7 ) Xt" W uccXa W  ~U 9& t )X& Wi " wH iV 2 Õ % } Î 3 Y D  ¨ e d4 1 2@  1} 9 4 ~& @ ` 9 'X& c( i H %& 20 x ' U ' b4 7 6` 2 8 '  d& 8 t )X& WG 5 !H 1V 2  % Xuc& c T#E S v Ç & '5  1VXc&7 ) t )uW&5 8 )& P5 #$ 15 ' PÅ0 )& '5 p 1 5 7 P@ H 1& 28 I7 ) 2(s % Ð17 S@ Â Pe ¥ IG7 P  ~ & '5 o 1 7 'H V 2 %  ! ' "9q V ¥    ¡7 u & "  ¥  A  1 i9¤ 5 I@ '5 9A 95 '& P" i $'f ' 6 @  X97 ch 2 XI& c #U$ ! @  PA'&¦ #V u & ' w  y d @ 'A P& 'V  u'8 cH 60 2 r!XW& c& iH i 2 7 1&  T)w  Ð17 S@ Â Pp ¥ dÅÚ(0 ' !8@ # P} 9 2ÌG 7 8 !@ #p 9 A 90 '8 !0 )5 '5 P& P #$A ! !  0 P8 '@ H 1m  @ 9 r9( W %Ì0 )8 '@ Æ 1   2VÔ % I8H )2 B0 P '&5 IU Py  H 1 28@ m 1 u)W y B ¦8 t u)& W GG !4 1V 2 %TÇ  985 IU PÂ  ~ @ H 1 p 6 )XH WG 2 1U)U$ ! 18 4 25  15 9¦ 10 ) '(& %0 # !& x I X& c7 )y  @ )8 P@ # 1$5 '{ P Xccua W V ~ 5 0 P8 ' #Uy u 8 I )U$ A !@ ' 9 & '  dy¦8 t u)& W GG !4 1V 2 D % c7X25 Wq 17 P 28± i t¤©   q ¢Å  IG7 P y ~ 0 P& '5  j1A Wp ' u)W75 2¦ 17 )0 y ! H 1 28@ 1 9 1¦0 5 )( ' & %0 # !& ( I A )& '@  17y B U ) u5 Wy 1 ! u'Xc7 c0 ¶ ! Â Î Î©k Î Q& '@ Ù 1 PUT3 S & t )u8 WG  !54 1V 2 % Xcu& c T#s S ÇTy  ¦ 1A )E ' A % 'uA c ' 7 P8 @ " 1 #7 2 9 vUu'0 c !X5 Wq 1 P7 2 & 'U )  u)WÐ1H S5 Â Pf ¥ I8H )2 0 '8 !5 #Â P } X)H WG 2 1U)U$ Ò ! H 18 2@ 1 5 9¦ 10 ) '(& % #0" !"  It& '5  1 Xucc7X2W5j18 W )uW 0 i¤9  ! ' 9 " VD7 u & "  k 0 ¥ )& 5 P@ #0 1@ '` P cXuca W Ï ~ 5 0 P& ' #¦ u k 1G 9 P8i w & ' t  d3 i 9  ! ' 9 " V ¥   ¡7 u & " U ¥  9 2 X0 7 c 'Uub5 W4 1 285 )0 P5 ' 1j7 c2 7 P 9 A 7 92 IA@ '5 9 9A5 '& P" i $È '  ' 6 )70 2 ! Ð1H S5 Â P ¥ '$ !@ # P}   6 A I5 '7 P& 5 " 1H #2 9 1¦0 5 ) '(& %0 # !& Æ I & '5 1 ( '  % 7 ' bX7 W@ t  9U 2 G8 !@ # 9l5 0 P& '¦ # u e ¥ 7 7 1 D e  U Q D e   d § 9y 2 A I" ' $& '8 I u)v W  '{ 6 cXuca W } ~ ¦ 1A )E ' A % u'A c ' Q3 P h  2 u)W¤8 t u)5 W@ P8 P #$0 !" !Æ    5 I PUÂ  ~ E 2 H 18 2@ o 1 TuSW$ ! '@ i 9   TÇm  IH ) 2 ¦  |Ñ ¥ x 9Ux 9U& t X)& W& i7 i 2srÁ d  2  I '0 " '8 I )X W  ' 6¨Xccua WÂ ~y q 17 P8 2 i}r!& W&  i75 2U P t7XWuc  yh x D x  y y u " w 6u8 W 6& '@  1X)W u 9 ) WG 9 P7& 5 " 1H # 2 X'& c i(H %& 20 ¸ ' P7TTS©¦ 10 ) '(0 % X'0 c' Q  h x D x  2V& t )X@ W5 P& P #$A !" ! & 95 I PUÂ } ~ H 18 2@ } 1 A 98 ' xwW$ ! '@ i 97  ÖØs  & t X)& W& iH iV 2 % ¥  7 Q 9¡  9 7 6 %  i "¤¤   7 'uXc& Wa v ~  B  9Å 2  I" ' $" '8 I )X W  ' 6 Xccua W ~ & )Ë 2 )uW Q   ¤ 7   H 1U)A( ' 0 % 'X0 c'  )x 2 X)& W@  u1a W ~ & t )X@ W5 P& P0 #0 !" !Â ¦ 10 )( ' A % u'A c' Qu9 )2 X) W& t )X@ W5 P& P #$A !" !±    IG7 P  ~º 2H 18 2@ { 1A 98 ' wx$ W ! '@ i¨ 9 5 ¢  & t X)& W& iH i 2 r 7 ¨ 3 1 D e  y y 8 dÇ 7 ¨ D e  y y & dÑ x ¨ 9 x D x  y y " dØ ¨ u ¤y  ©  ¤  & y ¤¤9 7 6 %  i "¡9   y y 7 d¢ 09¦& t u)8 W& iH iV 2 º %7 S A 9 X'& c i(H %& 2Á  Î d0 P5 'q 10 1 u'y c 0 ) 'UubWU t y 2 I87 )` 2 54 18 2E i 2 A ) '0'k ~ 1$ ' 6{9U8 t )u& W i8H i 2V¦ %7 S  'X8 c w )7X@ W4 1G 2& P #U8 t& w 7 )0 a ! 2 )u3 W  I@ '7 P X20 cA !" 'I X@ c 1uW$r!uW& c" i0 ¶ ' 5 'H P 2A I" '$ & ' I8u)± W  'v 6 cXuca W ~sH 18 2@  1y& 9 rI0 c ' w 8 ' 

dG A 9H PA 2 '& i i7y 2 U ) u5 W4 1 2V@ % PUT" S X)v W & '@  1xG  X!W8a y ~ X)} W ¦ 10 )( ' %  $ 7 "¤9  5 C ¥§7  w u'A 0 c ' & '@  1 98 ' zw0 WA ! ' iq9 7 8 k w 5 '& P i '&@ 3 1 5 '0 P '&a H ~Bc IH )2 ¤ £ g d¦ ¥ 7 7 Q  e  y P  c  $ 7 ¡ "  C £¤ g D d P Q D e  9` 2 A I '5¦ 10 )@ 'A 95 '& P0 i5 ' P 'x 6   2V% P P TSaV U 9 5 %0 P@ '¤ 1 0 " '8 I X) W & '5  1 'X& c( i H %& 2$ ' 7 P 8 s d&G 24 1 2&U I5 20 1E '  %7 S & t X)W  w0 " ' I8X) W  Iq 'U 9 28x6 w XIA c8 ' w U P T S k  u1WuXc& WH 6 2H i0 2Â ! 9D v } Î 3 Y D  ¨ e§  A I@ ' 98} # q ' Ú ¡ f} ¢ f e   p   } ä h U d 0 ` %@ 'q 1" 9 q} 9 P87 #w   w 6  Iq ' r9& WU ) t7$  ! '@} P X9} W H 18 2 @ 14 1V 2 %57 P T S 2 X)W  9 u'5 W0 P8 'U # uH S  k 1 r9uW c 2  9@ 'H 15 2A P& '0 )U ' ts8 I7 )2 A 9 X!& WU i @Õ 1  Î k Í Q 8 '@ 1 1& & #& i X) W 7 9 2  97 'H G 2Ô 1 H % 2G7 PU t@ & Pq i 7 ) X@ WH 1 X2@ c8 97 ) 255 P 1 '54 1G 2H P8 2A iq '9 e A d4 1 2V5 %7 P T S © D Î k Ív Q & ' 5x 1 X)W 9 j1c8q G # 9@ '{ P c78 28 )w 8 '@  1A 9 '54 1G 20 P& 'A ) '7tV@  X97 c 2 x1 Q d7 P 5y 17 !G 2@ P 10  ' '&@  1w@ 1 ' ik  V 1 7 ) X@ W 1$A !k 'H ×5 & Pi & ' @( 1  I )H2zD Î Y  ¨ e  @ 1 5 0 P '&¦ # u U ) uW5y 1A ! X'0 c@ '9 '8@  1 & 9 I0 )@ '± 9 8 IH )q 2 @ A P& '¦ #E u 1"& # i8u)w W 8 '@  1  97 'H G 2V 1 $ 'U ! |2q SA P@ ' 1¦X)± W } ) e d$  )7X@ W$ 1A !k ' ×7@ & P |iÂ G 9¦ 10 ) '(& % #$" !" Ù I P7º 5 9¦ 1A )E ' U %H tG 2 TP S A I8 ' )@& P5 #$ 1 '5P X@ c8 97 # X W0 b5 '& PÂ i '8@  17 %5  TPS0 %& '5 { 1G 9y 1U !5 25 P 1¦0  'v8 I7 )¸ 2G 90 P 'q ~8 9 )72 I@  ' 1y ! '" i0 © ' SH( '¦ ik E 1 & ' 53 1 A 9 '8xwW@¦ 1A )" ' XI3 W 7 P5 y 1U ! 255 P¦ 1  ÎV& '    d y 7 ) XW@y 1 ! u'A cq ' 9 9G1UX)H WG 2@ Pq 18 9 )U$ ! 8 '@  18 c wx& c T#© SH 18 2@  15 9¦ 10 )( ' %UH tG 2 TPÂ S 1¦0 ) '(& %0 #" ! "I PU  9GU 1A )( ' %&$ #" !" Ò I ¦ 17 ) 2A b u'A c@ 't P @ 'U P E % & ' @1 " 9 &H )G 2P I87 ) 2 9Gy 1 ! 'uA cq ' 9 '&X)7 W& tA ) ' GG !H PA 2@ '9 } Î Y  ¨ e & '    @ '& P5 #y 1 !@ ' u1& WG 5 !D P e"  Ø '5& P7 # Xt Ws

Q9¡& 7 9 y  u 9  P y 9 x xW u 9  6 y ¤  & Q ¡& 7  Q c P  & 7  y h  i99  & ' 9 "  V ¡7 u & " D  P Q c  & 7 

 u1a @ W ~ !X8 W i7@  1& 2 BUu'& c i(7 %" 20 a ' P78 v s dU@ A P& '¦ # u & '@ y 1 X)y W A I" '8 I X#c$ ! )uW X9a W 9¦& t )X& W& iH iV 2 ( % & t X)" W I8U ) @ iA 95 '@ P PU$ ` ! 8 I7 ) 2}V 9 @ %A P@ 'w 1 5 0 P '8U # u& '@  1H S Q ¡! 7  8 $ 18 !" #" I5 & P i7 ) X2@ WA 95 'q 1 P7 2 ¥§& 2 B¦ 10 ) '(0 % X'0 c' & '@ y 1 u)x W A I ' wz0 WA ! 'q i9 4 5 18 2± i 8 ' )7  H )8 25 o 1 @ ' PU(¤ % X9W±5 '0 P8 '@ ( 1 Sx Q dUu'5 c 1j5 Wq 1 !X8 W7 i@  1 '&@ 1 Q !¡ i  & X)s W 1¦0 )( ' %0X'0 c'  '5  1 %U@  TP¤ S ¦ 10 )8 '7 )  iEU % $ ! 7 ) X@ W 1$A !k 'H ×5 & Pi Q c  & 7  8 Q D! 7  ' @` & 1  IH ) 2(u'5 c j15 W 1 r!& W7 i5  1 '8@  1sX)W 5 9¦ 10 ) '(0 % 'X0 c' P IH )2 & '@ &  1ÏU %@  TPS( I@ 'H 1 2X@ c8 9H ) 2G@ P 1 r9 W 1UA )& '7 )  i(7 %0 x ! 7 ) X@ W 1$A ! X'0 c@ '3 9 8 '  d¦ A 10 )8 ' )7 E i %U$ ! ) X@ 7 W 1$A ! 'k7 ×@ & P© iH c8 2 )Uu5 W" 17 io  H )o 2 I87 ) 2 ¦ 10 )& ' )U ( i %70 q ! )Uu5 Wy 1 ! 'uA cq '¤ 9 2 t X)& & W )XH WG 2 1U)U$  ! 5 0 P8 ' #U¤ u 2s5 ¦ 1 u) W A I@ '@ 10 P 'U b7 ) $v ! 9U 2( ~ r!& WU i@ s 1 GU !© 2Î Ê" ' g% É Ë% È f Ì Ës ÊÉ  Ê} ä i V U dy  Ç U ) u5 Wy 1 ! ' F u)a W A P& '@ @ 1& P #T S A I@ '@ 9 980 #@ ! r9" WI '6uccXa W  ~ 9X& W ¶  A d¦ 1 )0( ' 7 % t75 2 TPq S  I@ '$ 1A ! X'c0@ ' 97 c X25 W j1& W )Xy W & '@  1±X)& W 5j1a W ~ 9 1¦0 5 ) '(0 % 'X0 cE '  I7 '& 7 )5 2& P )8 #@ '7 9A 2 !  H )w 2 )XE W 8 IH )¦ 20 BG 9¦ 1 )0( ' 7 % t75 2 PTSÁ¦ 1H )4 2b w0'ucA@ '5 P PX W  H )V 2  % & t u)8 W@ )& P5 #$ 15 ' P(u)E W A I5 ' j18 cq # 9@ 'Á P r9& W5  1A 9 'X@ WA P& '¦ # u '(U %q 9 P7&  sd75 '& P@ #7 9 2E ' %±k  u15 WH P r2uc( W X%q Ww 9 @ 17 P & i& i@ #V 9 7 1&  )(A 9 '"  I@ H 1Á 2  I7 8 )E 2 )Uu5 W4 1 2GU 1A ) '(0 % X'& c i(u%WÁq 1 97|2D S 2ÙU P T S 5  14Á 2  & t X)@ W8 9Â #5 '0 P ' ~Â '~ I8U ) $ !'F H d r!& W iU@ É 1 D Î k ÍE Q & '5 Ô 1 7 %5  TPx S XXcH c0 2 r!@ WH 1V 2 7 %@ & 1H # 2  I@ 'H 1 X2c w8 q 97 )5 25 Po 1 0 ) '0 ' 6s5 0 P& '¦ #w u & '5 ` 1 @ V 1 8 '" # I r9v W 9X8 W@ v 1 q 15 9 XP W sU dq ' 9GH P¦ 2$ ! Q 9 x D x  7 A @ P '7 b 5 'H P 2 9GU 1A ) '(0 % X'0 c' P ) }G 9¦ 1 )u7 W5 25 Pk 1 98U ) $V ! & '5  1 0 '@ '¶ 9 7 )0 2! U # 7Á9  e" d  ¢ r!& W7 i5 Á 1 P7TÙ SA PÂ '@ ~ 98H ) 2¨H SD   ' ik a 1 & '5  1 & t X)& W8 ) wk& ' I©7 P TS @ '8 9 # 'º ~H 18 2@ { 18 9@ H 1Á 2 Â & '@  1ÁU ' buU W t¨  |6V  8 IH )¸ 2U  2  © Ñ5 '& P7 # Xt Ws  & H )Á 2 Sj|W A T $ & '@ x 1 @ )8 P@ #$ 15 ' P& dt y 8 IA )'y@ ' 9U& 5 º 17 S¨  cu7 cy 2 5 )& P5 #$ 15 '& P BS  H c 28X)W w tu5 7 W7 Pa  8 '@  1H SÙ G 9 1U7 )& 2 I8A ) '$5 !A 9" '} I 5 'H P© 2H 1 28@ 1 A $ 5 'H P} 2 5 ' P0& '5  1 uS W" dÛ d¤ & Ñ A i@ 'q 1 9(5 E 1 7 t cu8 WD ) H 1& D ) X9¶ W £  u S W B$¨  " ¥ R Q $ 5 P IH G F  E 8 D  5 '4 1 r2& c$ # r!H cA 2 ! BH 1&  ) uSW8 dÇ y  I0 )' y C  H S  @ 4 1 2Á `  & '@ z 1 @ )& P5 # 1$5 ' P@ B¥ A B $ & ' )U  PUTD S ) A @ $ 9 8 7  u S W& dÑ 0 dG 9 1¦0 )( ' %0X'0 cx ' ) 6 5 $3 24 2 3 2' ( ) 1 0 $) ( ' & % $ 5 )& P5 #$ 15 'a P X98 W@ 1 y !#X ' c$r!@ W@ 1H Py 2 & '@  1 @ o 1 )Uu5 Wy 1A !k '7 ×@  P8± i @  14Á 2 x  8 '@ ¶ 1 u& c i8H ia 2" dØ d "  ! 'X$ c r!@ W@ 1H P¸ 2 Xc& c #T S & '5 w 1 U I 2UX" c7 B X'$ c r!@ W@ 1H PV 2 & t X)" WI  wA I ' 6 A % '}& '@  1H Sa  '(7 %8 2a ) & '@  1Á0 17 'H t B¦ 10 )( ' 7 % t75 2 TPa S 8 '@  1 7 I 2UX c7 d¢   1UA  ) '(7 %H tG 2 TP S A I& '5 )& P@ #0 1@ 'y P G  !7 2a ' 7 P TS ¨ B IA8 '8 ) wk" ' I(7 ) X@ W 1$A !k '7 ×@ & P i  2 X9a W 5 '0 P8 '@  1 xSº Q $& @ A P& '¦ # u(A )7 ' Xb7 W t © 2 PUTÐS } 9 4 ~ XcX7 c Tv S 9U 2 " 9@  PUÂ  ~& %@  u15 W7 P 7XtH cy 2 & '@  1 uXcH cG 20 P '80 )7 'V t 5 '7 P sr ¤ 09 i 9  ! ' 9 " © V  0 6 # @ ( %h!  & i ¡ ( ¡ ' 7 ¢  x D x  y y 9U¤ ( P % !  & i D ( ¡ ' 7 d¥ 2 G  !8q #¦ 9 B #$@ '4 5 1 2A!X" W I@ '8 P i  2 X& c X6q W5 9 9U  i 5  1ja W z ~ @ 4 1Á 2  z7 )E 2 9U 2  I& '8 )w" '( I X9W ) X@ 7 W 1$A ! 'k7 ×@ & P iH c 2@ #y 1U !y 2 '8 q   d Ð1H S5 Â P¥ $ ' !@ # P }   6 G 90 P 'H i 28¶ i @ 1 9$  '8 ! )A@ 'A P T'S$5 ' P r!& W& 7 i5 2 PU7 t XuW& c 6X& W 6& '@ { 15 9$ 17 ! 2G@ P 1 $ ' 8 IH ) 2 'u0 c !X5 Wq 17 P 2Xc& c T#S '@ &  1 I7U 2 X cq 18 9 # Ù % P75 y 1U !5 25 P¦ 10  '& '@  1A B8 9& H i 2G7 P7 t5 27 P 28Ù i7 PÙ 8 9 )Uu5 Wy 1 !q '9 X)± W I88 )7 # Tx S  'E 6 H 1& & )7 )0 2 ! A 9 '$ !0 )5 '0 P T'S$5 'w P r!& W& 7 i5 2 PU7 t XuWc8u6& Wx 6 '$8 ! )XW F dy 8 6 T6v  A 9 '08 !0 )5 '0 P T'0 S@ '3 P r!& W& 7 i5 2 PU7 t XuW& c 6X& Wv 6 '} 6 k 1 9 #  %5 9A PÂ '@ ~8 97 ) 2 '&@ 1 1kr9cu8 Wa  ~w0 B 9& H iG 27 P7 t5 2 P78 2z i PU  8 9 )Uu5 Wy 1A !@ '` 9 0 B 9u'0 c !X5 Wq 1 P7 2 'É 6  V 2 % 9 1¦0 5 ) '(0 % 'X0 c ' A I '8@ )& P5 # 1$5 ' P B4 | ¢ !X& WU i@  1 @  u1a W ` ~ u'8 cE i %7& 2$ ( ' P78 s d7 { ) X@ W 1$A !k 'H ×5 & Pi '@ & ` 1 5 9 9A0 '" !@ & P¶ i r9& W@  1 ucc70 2z ! q '  Ú A d¦ 1A )E ' 8 % #$" !" m I & t X)" W& I I ' 6 0 %' 9 1u 5 W PUx  ¦ 10 ) '(7 %7 t5 2 TPq S & '5 p 1 X)& W@  u1a W y ~ 5 9¦ 10 ) '(A % 'uA cx ' ¦ 1H )4 20 b 'X0 c '5q P '&@ 1 $ 17 !G 2@ P 1 $ ' 8 IH ) 2 TuS@ W¦ 1A )" ' XI3 W @ Â 1& ' )U" Ù I X9} W t8u)@ W@ 9 9$ '" !5 & PÂ i '(U %q H 9 BH 1& ) xSº QA d PAÂ '@ ~8 9H )3 2 & '@  1 9XÂ W 1UA ) '(7 %H tG 2 PTa S& '5  1V0 )8 '@ U 17 B@ '7 90 2! & '@  1©X9Â W 1j{ W xSQ

d0 P ' ~q 9H ) 2& '@ º 1 P7T{ S 59 U ' ik v 1 A I5 ' 1y ! '" i$  '& ' 5& 1H Sº  X9Ù W u1WA P '&@ 0 1 '&a ~  G ! '&G  ! 5 E 1 I8H )± 2 } Î 3 Y D¨ e  E 6 A I& ' )5& P #@0 1 '@Á PG ¦ 10 )( ' 7 %7 t5 2 TPTS ¦ 10 )( ' % w$ & #" !"  I G  !UA 2 '(5 9A 90 ' !5 & Po i @  1Er9W`u'8 c" # I"E  w % X9& W 5D 1 S7y  X'7 c5 ` P '&  Ê" ' gr É9 Í Ëa Ê# É  Þ  d&@   l ¢ 7 Sa  P7@  1$7 ! |2 S  2 E 6 & t )u@ W7 9 2@ '0 P !8X)x W U ) u5 Wy 1A ! X'Xc7 c$  ! 8 ' @ 1H S  @ ' 1¦  6 )XTW  A ' æu@ W9 & '5 E 1 8 IH ) 2¦& B¤   ©   o ¢ H S©  P7@ $ 17 ! |2 S E 2  v 6 t&X)WqU 9A 25 '$ P8 ! X)W 9G¦ 10 ) '(& % #$" !" Õ I H S  0 P ' 6 8 %¦ # )l& '5  1 & t X)WH V 2 Õ % 0 BG 9 1UA )( ' 7 % tHG 2 TPS '@ 8  1 XcH c2 8 I )7 2 G 9U 1A ) '(& % #$" !" Æ I H c r2@ W u1& W u) W '&@  1ÔH S  '"7 IV 2 % 9 U 2l ~ 7 ) X@ W$ 1A ! X'uccU$ Ì ! & t X)W@u1c&@ #A 95 ' P& '@  18 B t8u)W5q 1 u1uW& c i@Ó 9 A P '@Ð1a Se dA 7 ' '@5 P1" w8 6 #q( 9 w 2 t&X)W@@ 1 1"& #i @ w" 17 # `A )& 'a  ~aA 9 X'W@u1W@¦ 1A ) '7 9 2xG U ! 28f 6 A %& ' @D 1 1"& # i@& 17 #(  @¨ 1 XcWH|2D S 1"& #6 10 ¦ )( ' %&0 # !""  I( 2 & t X)" W7 I 2@ 'y P 0 )8 ' aE ~ X@ c 1$A !5 ' P@U P$  !fA %& '@  1$ 15 '& P i50 P5 'U 1 X)W 9G0 P@ '5 97 P 28z i   r a  A d5 9A P@ 'y 1U !5 2 P78 2 GÙ !H c r2$ WA ! '@ is 9 8 I )H3 2 A 9 X'@ W u1@ W 1¦A ) ' @u1a W~ & t X)XWH cA 2& ' IH S  & ' #@5 9 X9v W & '5  1 97 2 ~ @ 'A P& ' @ 1U B7 '4 b H 6 2yA I '&U ) u5 WU 1A )( ' %7 92 9 1UA G )( ' 7 %H tG 2 TPw S 8 t )u@ W 957 P8 2 i©7 SÆ  A % u'8 c7 6 5& P( i '&@  1 '"XIW@A 9 '} k d uS0 c@ ' 95u1 W X)W '8 0 !0 ) X'@ WA P '" i0 E ' 8 t )u5 Wk 1 9@ 'A P@ '¦ 1 )u` W )7a 27 9 2 ~5 9 1¦0 ) '(7 %7 t5 2 TPSa¦ 1A )E ' 8 %$ # !"" I t&X)@ WH 1A 25 'Â P¥ y d U ) u5 Wy 1 !U5 2 P5¦ 10  ' A 'q '9  5  PH5 2 9@ 9$ 'A !8 ' )w7 9 2 ~ t&X)@ W@ 9 9$ '! w@ 7 & P( i A P& ' @@ 1 P&T#x S q ' 9U0 2 ! u)E W U 1A ) '(7 %H tG 2 TPSy& '@  1q 'G 9H P 2¶ i 5¶ 1 5 H P 255 9A 9' w$A !& 'v ) 5 '0 P ' ~V k ~ 1ak 1U 9 X2 c 8 '   d¨ I@ ' 1$A ! 'X0 c '@} 9 7 9 2} ~ 1¦0 )( ' 7 %7 t5 2 TPv S 8 '@ 1 '7 @ 90 2 !X) W A PÂ '@ ~ 98H ) 2 ©D Î k ÍE Q 97 2 A I& '5 )& P #@0 1 '@` P  'o 6 @  1zA I '@$ 1A ! '" i$ ' 9 '&7  ) & '5  1@ 'A PÂ ' ~ )7X@ W4 1V 2 %57 P T" S X)WH SÙ A 9 ' ik Ù 1k 1G 98 Pw Â  ~k 1 '&  d3 $  a3   c X25 7 W j1W8u)Â W& '@  1 X)H WH c 2 )7X@ W" 1U i{  95¦ 1A )E ' A % u'A c{ 'k 1¦ 9(  %a& t u) W7  2(3 % 6 I 'U0 A b X'& WG  !7a 2U 9 2a ~ r9& W 5Ð1  1¦0 ) '(& %0 # !& y I rIXWH c4 2E b 2a¦ 1A )E ' U %H tG 2 TPS X9& W 5y 1 " '7 IV 2 w % 14 2@ Ô 1 a 3  D  cHr2@ W 1u& W X)¤ W & '@ 3 1 H S 7 ) XW@8 90 )5 ' 1¦0 ' )( H 2 @  1 t&u)& W8 I7 )  iq 9@ '5 P7 P0  !7 ) X@ WH 1 257 P X20 cA ! '" I © Î   ¥  ç E2   8 I )72 y A I& '& IA I ' 6 A %Â 'U 9 2} ~ ¦ 1A )E ' A % u'A c' '@ 8 w 1 Gr!& Wa  ~yu) W '5& P@ #$ 1 !85 # P@q 13 9 A '@ ' P51 '8@ ¸ 17 S U )@ $ 1 X'0 c 'Uq v 9 & ' 51   y   ¤  ¢  e y& ¤ © ¨§ ¢ & 7 ¡& # & y ¥ ¤ 1¦ ¢ v¤! 8 D x y!¥ ¤ 1£ ¢ 9¤  9 7 $ %  i ¤ " 9  y B X'& 7 c i(H %& 2 $a ' PUTÐS  1¦0 ) '(& %0 #" ! "I cu& c #Tz S & '@  1X)s W ¦ 10 ) '(%77 t5 2 TPSz& '@  1(S7Ë  @ H 18 2 i cH 2 #@y 1 !U 2 & ' 51   y  6     2S I H9 4 ¡   ¡& y  H 9 I c I 1$h y ¤  ¤y U B u'8 cE i 7 % 2&$  'a7 P TTS 7 S aq 17 P 28i 9U 2v ~ ¦ 10 )( ' 7 %7 t 25TPv S X9& W5 v 1 ¦ 10 ) '(& % #$" !" w I 8 ' @© 17 S V( ' H %8 2 )V& ' 51    0 9" ' I8X#$ c8 ! X)} W x1Q A d5 9¦ 10 )( ' U %H t 2GTPa S 5 9 1¦A )E ' 8 % #$" !"  I & '5  1V@ x 1  I '"& I7 ID 2 7 9 2y ~ U ) u5 W4 1V 2 %57 P TS w u)W© & 10 @ '¦ 1 )70 D ! '(7 %@ 7 98 B& t X)@ W 9@ 9$ ' !"@  P8© i0 P8 ' @@ 1 P&T# S@ 17 P & i i&@ # 9 ¸  d !50 H 1' BUu'c8H 65 2A 1A BA 95 '& P #78 t@ w B¨U IA 2& 'º U 1 )U@  TP$ S0 B 988  iHG 27 PH tG 2H P 2A iA B8 97 ) XW@$ 1A ! '@9 9U¤ 2 G8 !q # 90 B 9GU 1A )( ' 0 % X'0 c} ' 1u& cq # 9@ 'Á P7 Sa A 9 ' i ky 1 A I@ '$ 1A ! '" i$  ' & ' 51   I8H )2yA 90 '8 !0 )5 '0 P T'0 S@ ' P X!8 W &H iG 27 P tUuXW& c X6W&6 PU¤A 9 'X@ c u1@ W` 1 U 9 2 cu7 cV 2 q %¤ 9 U 9 2s5 9¦ 1 )0'(A % u'A c ' 5¦ 1 u)s W u1uW8 cq i 9 7 1 &) rI" W I ' ~ y5 9 1¦0 ) '(7 %7 t5 2 TPS©H Sy  k  j1W5H P r2& c #H )G 27 P t X'& c 678 27 ) @7 9 2@ ' Px2   G 0 9y 1A ! ' i@7 92  k ~ 1©¦ 1& )7 #0 0 !U !x 2 )X} W 7 '7  25 14 1 285 Á 1 9U7 t5 2{ 17 SÂ A P ' 6 & % # ) XcH cV 2 %@ 9 2E@ 1 & t X)" W I87 ) @ iA 95 '@ PU P $( ! 5 9 1¦0 ) '(A % u'A cm ' s  3 r   5U 1 X)E W 5 9 1¦0 ) '(& %0 #" ! "y I 8 '@ 1 u1XW& cq iy 9 Â '© ~{ B7 ) X@ W 1$A ! X'uccU$  !`& ' @} 1 S7  r9W@ 9 XH c 2 )HE 2 @ 17 P8 q w 9 A P '@Ð1a Se dy  )7X@ Wy 1 !q 'D 9 10 & 'v ) 0 '@ ' |9v  G 9U 1A )( ' 0 % X'0 c' 1u& c@ #A 95 'Å P A I '5y 1A ! '" i $ ' '&@  15 ) P&5 # 1$5 'm P @ m 1 @7 P@ 2 95A 90 'A !& ' ) ' 6  V 2 % & t X)@ W$ 17 ! 2G@ P 1$ É ' 0 P& '5 q 1& P T#l S U& t7 # &5  1j7 cn 2 0 B 9 u'W50 P& '¦ #h u  I '@& P5 #y 1 !85 # P@q 19 PUTSf8 t )u W&  )75 2 P '&5  1Æ& t )u W4 b 5& P i(u% W 9U 2 ucA cÂ ' ~ U 9 2A BA 9 X'5 W0 P '&¦ #u X& c )UÖ@ wU 1A )@ '¦ 1 )70 n ! @  1 5 9A PÂ ' ~@8 9H )± 2 '&5  1y7 P T S & t u) W &7 )5 2 Pm" I ¦U  t X)W 1u& c@ #A 95 ' P rI& c #7  ~}u1WD4 18 25 x 1 A I@ '$ 1A ! '" i $ ' 97 2D ~ x1 Q0 dG 90 P 'q ~ 9H )¸ 27 c8 28 )w

)A7 ' bXW3" 9 dA9A@ '& 1& # u65 W@ P@ 14 1 2 5 y 1 H iV 2 %V@  1 X'& c X6q W5 9U 9 } i H 1& D ) X9W j1} W H 1 28@ 1 X9 W & t )u8 W& iH i 2V % 8 P7 #p  )Xp W 7 ) X@ WH 15 2 u1W(u%XW c ¦ 10 )5 '@ P8 P #$` ! P0& '5 H 1& D ) e d r9W&@ A 1 '4 5 1& 2" I (7 %0 0 !7 ! 2E@ w 1 A I '8xw" W" I(  D % 'V 6 XIc87 #& @  9& t X)" W$ " ' I u) W H t5 2 1©7 P TS  t05 7 '4 1 2G@ Pq 1 9gD Î Y  e¨|  & '5 ` 1 4 18 25  1 &  u)W8@ ¶ 1 Â 'a ~ ÖBH cA 2 !X& WG G !H P 2G0 P 'X& W uXccHA 2 !X@ W8 9 )X@ W5 P¦ 1 )us W 5 'H Py 2 5 9¦ 1A )E ' %8$ #" !" Ó I   r D  BU'$8 ! X)W F 8 d  6q @ 1 t X)" & W8 I )U @ iA 95 '@ PU P $ ! IXA c8 'w & '@  1 X)z W I '0 " '8 I X) W A )0 ' 'x 6 U ' b8 2 (H 1& ) rI& c7 # a ~   1ÐH S5 Â P ¥  IH )a 2" 0 ' !85 #Â P } @ '8 97 # 20A ! ' 6& B Ð1H S5 Â P ¥ $ ' !85 # P } Q  x D x  9 )uW75  2 1¦7 )0  !ÁH 1 28@  1¨ h  9 '$8 !A )@ 'A P T'$ S5 ' Pr!& W& H i 2G7 P tUuWX& c X6& WÙ 6" 1 #7 H 62 1& 7  )©" 18 # 67y B¦   Ð17 S@ Â P¥ $ ' !@ # P }  X'& c i(H %& 2 $© ' P7TÐS}U P& @ & 1H # 2 97 v0 '8 !0 )' @ w P0T'0 S@ ' P r!& W& H iG 27 P tUuWX& c X6& W3 6 & '7 )a  " 1U # 7 6 2(5 0 P8 ' #UV u 5 D 1 'X& c X6q W5 9 9U  i '6  h y  x D x  y y 7 rI& c7 # ~u1W{B u 9 P T± S A I& '8 )w" ' I r9Ws& t )X& W& i7 iV 2 ` % D 2 jSw W 'X& ci w7 %& 2$ ¤ ' P78 s A dA 9 X'@ WA P& ' #¦o u !X5 W0 P& 'A )7 '± t 5 '7 P (± % @ 'H 1& 2 rIuW7 c 2 b X) W Xcuca W ~ t )u& 8 W i8H i 2V %  ! xwW$ ! '@ ix 9  7 ) 234 1 2@ a 1 r9 W G  !U8 2a 6  ~G 2" P I & ' a 7 d G G !H P2 q w PAu'& WE  Ir0 c8 'v w PUT  SÁ¦ 1& )7 #0 0 ! !7© 27 1&  ) "  I(8 IH )¦ 2A B¦ 1 )X7 Wk  |×9X" W I(8 I )7© 2¦ 10 )" 'I " w0 ) '0 i& '8 I )u W 9UV 2 A I" ' IGH P¦ 20 t5 'D P 5 'H Pa 2& 9 rI0 c8 ' w @ ' 9U& 5  1 B¨A I5 ' 1UA )( ' 0 % X'& c( i %uW u5 c 1U)A@ '5 P& P0 # ! r9a W 1j( W   2 ~ '8   d¨XIA c8 '§ w A )7 ' bX7 W tE 2 5 © 1 9@ 4 1 2 i & t )X& Wi wH " i 2V%V  6$& '8 I u)W(5  1& 9 XIA c8 'w & '@  13& ' )k w " ' I Â 'x ~ 8 I )7E 2 & t )X" W$ " ' I )uW Iq  'U 9 28Ö6" w IXA c '8p w P7T º S} 9 4 ~ ucXH cq 2 Î}3 Y D  e¨D  U B7 ' b4 H 6( 2 )u7 W X2& c" i0 Â ' 'Ù ~D 9 e 8 7 '    0 0 ! 6 dG {  !U2U5 & P& iH i} 2 P87 #º 7 S 8 97 ) X@ WH 1 25 b0 P@ '8 9 6U{ H c r2@ W 1u& W X)3 W ( ' %Uq 9 U 'H V 2 %5 w 1 'X& cH 6 2y@ '7 Px 2  ' ~ A P '70 b '4 ~}  5   { dU ) u5 Wy 1A ! 'XcX7 c$ a ! cX& c T#x S '&@ 1 )U  & '@ ( 1 t8u) W5 0 P& '¦ # usH ) 2@  1 7 ' Xb@ W$ 1A ! ' $v ' 5 '7 P(  a % 9U 2` ~ )7X@ W 1$A ! X'cuU c $! I@  '@ 1 j1WX& c@ i 9(8 '@ ¶ 1 )7  8 t u) W5 0 P& '¦ # u 0 P8 '@ $ 1 '8a  ~ 7 )v  0 17 '  1UA ) '(E % U % $!  1DX'& 5 c 678 2& )D # 5 'H P 2  ' ~ F d0 P ' 6 A % '$A !' `  )uV W U i& q " 95 7 P  ~ © D Î k ÍQ ' @U & 1 cu5 W¦ 1& ) # 'X& cH 6 r2uc7 W4 2 b 2H 1 8 )@ ' P7º 2 9& )@ #Â Pq ' 9& '@ º 17 P T{ S5 9 u1& c@ #A 9 '5© P& '  å8 Í' Ë& g Ê v  ¼ Ë  Ê i© g o  ± g u È p È % Ë f Æ # d75 0 P& '¦ #y u A I@ ' 1$8 !5 #@ Pq 18 97 )0  ! uXcH c 2¦ # )7V 2 v % '&@ 1 } 9 4 ~ 8q  9Ù  |68a Ñ5 '& P #7Xt Wp s A dA 9 X'c$r!@ W@ 1H P 2©u1uWc8q i} 9 & '5  1 U ) (& )@ #a P 8 '@  1 8 IH )2 9 'u0  c !X5 Wq 17 P& 2 uc8 c #T© S& '5  1 U )  & )5 #Â P8 '@  1@ H 1  67 P T S  I@ '4 1G 20 P '80 )7 ' t 50 P& '¦ #u '@ &  1} 9 4 ~ 8q ¨ 9¦  |2  Ñ©@ ' P87 # Xtº Wp s 0 d 9& )@ #© P '05 '& P@  1©& '@ v 1 )X W 4 ¢ X ! W87 i@ ¸ 17 P TS Iq  '8 9E # 5 0 P& '¦ #w u G7 ! 2 '} 9 4 ~& @  9 D Ñ 5 '& P #Uut W s 7 B X'& c i(H %& 2 $V ' 7 )Â 29 e d¨A I 'U4 b@ & P( i X%} W 0 P '8@ @ 1& P T#y S 0 )0 ' '3 6 7 ' b 28 rIc&7 #0  !wA 9 'X5 W0 P& '¦ #D u c78 2 #H ) 2Vs % & '5  1 U& t7 #8 @  u1H ca 20 B 9 u'5 W0 P '8U # u " I 7 t t X)@ & WH 15 2 PA& '0 ) 'U t 7 Sq  0 '8 !H )G 2q 1 PU ( i X%± W & '@ q 1 5 '4 1 28X#H c4 20 b ' 5  1¤y 1A ! '" i $' '¤ ~ 8 9 )8@ #n P  k ~¤ 1 k 1U 9 2X± c '8@  1& t X)@ W7 P8 2 i(7 %$  ! } 0 dG 9¦ 10 )( ' 7 % t75 2 TPS t )u" 8 W$ & '8 I )u W 7 )Õ  '$ !w& '0 ) 'Õ 6 & '@  1É@ 'H 18 2 u#c74 20 b 'f5  1 ¦ 17 ) 2 ~ÉÂ '~ 9 )&5 8 # P q 15 9 Pe w  k ~m 1 & '5  1sH S  A 95 ' P70 @ ! 9& '5 Å 1 & t )X@ W7 P 28( i %7$ !  } d )Uu5 { Wy 1A ! X'c jwcU$} ! j1WX& c@ iv 9 & '@  1k 1 9 u)7 W 2UH ta 2¦ 10 )@ 'x 9  IH ) 2  IH )8 2w   V 6  I7 '4 b5 & Pi © 4   !   3 ! 2 w X%}  W 5 '0 P ' ~ 9 'u5 W0 P& '¦ # u3& '@  1(& )5 #Â P 9X& W5  1VR)D Q ()  |£ ¦  £ " d ¨ I& ' GG !H PA 2@ ' 9 @ 'A PÂ ' ~ 9 u'0 c X!5 Wq 17 P¸ 2 ucc8T# S7 92 cuA c 'Â ~7 9Ù 2 9G1UA ) '(7 %H tG 2 TPSÁ" 1& #7 6H B r!& W i75 Â 18 '@ 8 17 S 5 9¦ 10 )& ' )U  i(U %$ ! ( ' %7@ 2 9'8@ ` 1 & t )Xq W 9 # Xcu7 c0 2 r!@ W4 1V 2 %U@ " 17 #¶ 2  I@ '4 1G 20 P '80 )7 'V t 5 '0 P '~ 9AX'@ W PA& '¦ # u '8@  1 & )@ #Ù P r9& W5  1R)Q3()¦  £  '&% $ #  ! # 1 0n    ( ©   |£ ¦  £ © dA { I& 'G  !GH P 2q 'v 9 5 '0 P ' ~A 9 'X$ c r!@ W@ 1H P¸ 2 Xc& c T# S & '5 V 1 u8 c7 ) Q #h& 8 "¤h ' 9  v¡!¡ p  8 Q 9h  @ i 6 % ¡ W  I7 8 ) 27 B X!& W iU@  1 & '5  1 %U@  PTS ¤ IH )2 & '@ & 1 & t )Xq W 9 # uXcH cA 2 !X5 W4 1V 2 7 %5 " 1H #2 A I@ 'H 15 2A P& '0 ) 'U t 5 '0 P '~ !    9AX'W@A P& ' #¦w u & '@ o 1 & )5 # P r9& W5 ¶ 1 )R3 Q ()¦  £  '&% $ # "    ( ©   |£ ¦  £ © dU A P@ y 1 !U5 25 P 1 $ ' Ä} Î Y3D  e¨§  @ 1 1¦)Aq ' 9 9A'X@ W PA& '¦ #3 u 5 ¦ 1 u)º W0 9 r!& W7 i5 z 1 ©D Î k Í Q& '5 a 1& t X)@ W@ 10 P7 ' b )U$ v ! A I 'UubcU7 b w")u W & )5 #n P G7 !© 2a Î d D Î k Íy Q P7T S 8 9& )5 #q P 0 '5 '& P@  1 I" ' XI W b45 & Pq i ¶ ' Ú
G I c I $ 1    H Ic I $ 1 & Q 8 Q ¡7!9 & y h  "¡ v & Q D7! Q c P  ! 7 9 y &   s  I c I  1 "¤ '     I c I $ 1 P Q @  7! u 9   y ¤   y 9¤  796 % i9¤ " 9   y y Q F u  u 9   y y Q F u 

A d Ð1S7@ Â P¥ $ ' !@ # P } 7 9¸ 2 Xc0 c ' ~7 9 2 9$ ' !85 # P} 0 P& ' 5H 1Ù H S i 9  ! '  " 7 ¥ x SHy i 9  '! " 7¥ ¤ x  U k 1A ) u'8 c3 i '5H Pv 2 5 '0 P& '5  1 972© 9  7 I 2 '@q 1 98u)|W 9 'X& c( i H %& 2$  '¤U P T3 S 0 B 9 'u& c #5m P )Uu5 W4 1 r2q c 9 )HG 2@ P3 1 H cG 20 P '&A )7 ' t )@A P$ ' !5X9& W Ip@ 1 'X& cH 6 2 )& # @ 'A PÂ ' ~ 'p ~ " 1& #g 6 A I@ ' Ð1H S5 20 Pf ! Xuc& c T#0 S@ '7 P0 2Ë !  'f 6 rI& cU #$ ! 9 'u5  W0 P& '¦ #3 u H c 28 #H ) 2Vs % '50 P8 'a  ~VA 9@ '7 9A 2x ! 0 P8 '@ H 1¤  5 '0 P 's ~ 5 '0 P '&  d7 ¸ ) X@ Wy 1 ! 'kH ×5  P&V i @Â 1G 9U 1 X)H WG 2@ P 1q8 9U )$ ! x D x  y !@ x 6 % xDh y @ x  % xD y D  D x y&9¤  ¤ 7 6 %  i "¤ 7 '@ 8 1 & I7 I 2 )HA 2 !ÌÂ '~ ¤ ) ) X@ 7 W 1$A !k 'H ×5 & Pq i  2 8 IH ) 2 7 ) X@ W 1$A ! X'0 c@ '¶ 9 n 2 @  17 y 6 5 'H P¤ 2 @ 'A P '&@ y 1 0 ' !8u)W@9 B"  ¢rX!& WU i @ 1 u) W 'u& c( i %7" 20  ' PU& s { d7 ) X@ W 1$A ! 'k7 ×@  P&E i & ' 5 1 5 ` 1 A I" '8 I7 I2 'É  6 XI& c #U&  @Ï 9 U ) u5 Wy 1 ! u'A cq ' 9p& ' 5o 1 7 P Tq S 9U± 2 5 9¦ 1 u)7 W 255 Pk 1 97 )$ n ! ( ' H % 259 '@ 8 a 1{ B )Uu5 Wy 1 ! u'A c 'q 9  2 7 Sx  1@H P8 2x i r9n W 7 ) X@ Wy 1 !k 'H ×5  P& i  2 0 ) '&n  Ú ¤ 0$  !  ¤D6 % 9 " i¤  ¡ ( D ' 6 % i¤$  D  ¤ " '&!  © ( ¤ B k 0 ¢ d¥ 50 P '8U # u& '@  1 )Uv  )7XW@$ 1 X!W5@ P 1qA 95 'H PH c 27 ) X@ W 1u" W I&7 I 2 '&@ } 1 @ 3 1 A I5 '4 1 r2q c 9H )G 2@ P1 ' 6 XI& c #U& @ 3 9 H c4 2A b u'5 W@ P0 1 '@E P 7 ) X@ WH 1 2(5 %7 P T& S u)W@©  @ '7 9G 2& P &a i8 '@  1 X'c&( i H %2 w0  'xU P&  s¦U d u& cU  ut8 W  5 '7 P (w % G A 9 '@7 9G 2& P&  iy7 P |  & 9G I7 P  ~0 U 'q  8 '@ 1 5j1a WÂ ~5 9 1¦0 ) '(& %0 #" !"  I & t X)¦ W 8H )G 2 P©8 9 #5 Ù 15 90 17 'G 7 !G 2& Pw 6 A )0 ' ' ~k$ 1 'Â 6q 1 X9XWc 2 7 ¶ 9¤ 2 GA 9@ '7 9G 2& P& ¶ i P7Tz& 95 IU PÂ  ~A 7 ' z8 '@  1 & I IU 2 q '  Ú ` d 0 %8 '@ 1 TSj5 W 1¦0 )" ' rIWsXucW@7 9 2q ' )70 2w !  '¸ ~8 B 2(( % U % $¤ ! ¶ 2 ¶ 6 A I '54 1G 2H P 28A iq 'V 9 '5H P2 9q  'U 9 25& P 8is@ 'A P& 'a   ~ 5  985 I PUÂ  ~0 U 'v  H Sx  5 9q 1 X9XWn c u) W u'c&( i 7 % 2"0  'U P TÐS 9q  ' 9U0 2 !( ' 7 %@  9 X) W 0 PU '0 b '4 ~ &¸ A BA 9 '@7 9G 2 P&& ± i G 8 ! #@Â 9 XcH cw 2 @ ' r9W&7 )U t$ A ! '5P 5  1 u1& c #$w ! uÃ" W IDr9W 1xD Q 0 d 9q 'U 9 25& P 8w i & t X)q W8 9 #y I '&G  !57 PA 2@ ' 9  '¤ 6 rI& c7 #&  @9 58 95 I PUÂ  ~0 U ' }& ' 5( 1 )u W uXcH c r2W$ ! '@ iA 9 |'aA 9@ '7 9G 2& P &E i 8 I& ) #U ( i 7 % Â¥  1w 5 I '@H 1 X2@ c8 9H )G 2 P@ 1 r9W u'& c i(7 %" 20  'a7 P8 o s { d7 ) XW@u1W"8 IU )$ ! ) X@ 7 W 1$A ! X'0 c '@ 9 & @  PU@ 4 18 28 IH )V 2 T%  t87 )5  P@q 1 9sw 2 '@H 15 2A P& '0 ) 'UV t Â ' ~ A 9@ 'H 1 2&I Q c  & 7  @ P T U S q  r9c}Á eU d& ' u#7 c4 2 b&H cA 2 !X5 W0 P( ' & % # )  2 5 1 P 10 PU ' b¦U )$  !V8 I7 )U 2¨ v vI i & 8 q e qS " v¡! y 9 i 8!q eS q 9 " v £ 2G4 1& 2 IU5 2 1$( ' ¶ % q '8 9q #  ' ~A )& '@  1 ¤¥9 ¢ $ 1@ 'q 9 8 '@ 1 Q ¡! 7  & X) W r9 W ¦ 1A )E ' A % u'A c' & ' 5 1 X)& W@  1ua W ~ 7 t 25± 1 U ) u5 Wy 1 ! u'A cq 'y 9 & ' @} 1 uSW X'& c i(H %& 2 $ '7 P T¦ SA BA 9 '54 1& 2Â IA 9 '7Xbc7U  b u)x W 7 ) X@ Wy 1 ! u'A c 'q 9 '&5 D 1 '50 P '&n  Ú d@ A 9 9 '$" ! 5& P i U ) uW54 1 r2q c8 9 )75 2 P5V 1 5 0 P '&¦ # u & ' 5 17 P TS0 9 r!W@q 1 r9@ W P&A #& ' & t X)a W ~4uXc7 c T S& '5 v 1  I 'U i uA c7 '0 b& ' I @X9c7 2 ' ~A 9 X'@ WA P '&¦ # u A I5 'y 18 ! #5@ P 1q8 9U )$ ! XXcH c8 2 #H )V 2 % H S & PU # u W b8 2A  '6 & '5 1 8 t u)W&X)( W %H& 2Á Î dk  1G 98 P w  9& 'G 5 ! 1H( 2 v % X'& c #5{ P c&T#0 S 'q8 9 #aq 1 9U(  v % '&5  1 @9 9u'c8@ #P & t )u8 W& iH i 2V %& ' @} 1 t&u)5 W0 P& '5 I PUv  ¦  6 r9& W @ 1& '8 ) #@Â 1¶ ' º Ú d7X'$ c r!@ W 1@H P2 '@ 8 Ù 1H Sa  9G7 P8  @" 17 # 2 1$U 'x t X& c7 )  @  1U 9 2 q 9 X'c&7 6 25A P T'$ S5 ' P& i  ' 6 V 2 % X0 cU ' ub5 W 148 2 )50 P '5j17 cD 2 1"& #6 '4 5 1 r2q c 987 )5 25 Pw 1 rI& cU # $v ! Â '" ~A BV 9 0 % X'& c7 6 5& P ia¦ 10 )@ 'A 9 '5& Pi V  2 V % #74 2Â ÄU 9w 2 G8 ! #qÂ 95 9 1¦0 ) '(A % u'A ca ' E ' U %q  9A P7 'A bÂ '4 ~D  ¡   $ d 0 ' !8@ # P} { 6 d tU  d T'w  IH )V 2 %(7 %$  !@ ' P&7 IÁ 2 3 2 @ ¦ 1 X) W @H 1Á 2    r9& W@  1Á5 '4 1 r2q c 9H )G 2 P@1 @ 1 Ñ d&w Ñ 7 ) X@ W 1$A ! ' F X)E W A I@ ' 1¦A )q ' 9@ ' P& iU 9& t X)& W& i7 i( 2 %a8 ' @a 1 '@8 9 #a 'E ~ A ) '&  x D x 9 y  y 9 Q e F  x x 'u& d c i(%7" 20 s ' P78  s dU@ A P '&¦ #z u & ' @E 1 H S¶  U 1A )& '7 ) i wEU % $( ! )7X@ Wy 1 !k 'H × 5& P iD8 ' @( 1 X) W  Iq ' 9E # U ) u@ W5 9A 9 '5& P i"$ ( ' @H 1Á 2  E  5 I7 P 2&I Q !¡ i  G w&H ) 25q 1v 9  2 @1  9¦ 10 )( ' 0 % X'0 c 'Á$ 1U '@ t7 P5 2 1Á@ 10 PU '¦ bU )$ © ! 1q5 9 P w ¶ ' Ú

ÈÉfÕ Ì ä q ã8 p Êv ä    ä D ä å

¨

¦ §  

9y 7 2 A I5 ' 14r2cq 9H )G 2@ P 1  ' 6 rI& c #7 ~

i¤9  ! ' 9 " q V ¥ x ¡7 u & "  i¤9  ! ' 9 " q V¥   ¡7 u "&

¥

¥  

x

BÖH c4 2A b 'u5 W@ P0 1@ ' PwU ) u5 Wy 1 !q ' 9Ï7 %5  TP S 9G¦ 10 ) '(& %$ #" !"  I 8 t u) W& 7 )5 2Â P7 P TSÁ 9@ '8 Pq #9 4 w 2A( ' %±k  u1@ W7 P X2Xc( W u%@ W 9H cG 20 P '7A bq ' 9( 9q '¦ 9  iU@ & P} i 4  ¨ 7 )@  98X)¦ W XXcn W Ú A d¦ 1A )E ' %UH tG 2 TP3 S  ! xwW$A ! '@ ia 9 q 1 9U(  v % & '5 ( 1 t&X)" W8 I8 )w S( H  'Uub5 Wy 1 !Ak '& ×7 6  & P7 #v  q 18 9 )XH WU 2 t7s 2   2X8 cÁ i cuA cÂ 's ~  V 2  % G 9 1UA ) '(& %$ #" !" I t )7Xc¶5 8 V 1 7 ' t75 2¦ 1H )4 2" b IUq 2 & t X) W ub3 W 9 dU7 ' Xb@ W$ 1A !k '" ×U 6 ±G 5 !7 PA 2@ ' x9{ w sr  ' @ & 1H 1& º ) r9 W¸ B u)7 W 2UH t 2U{ B GX!8 Wa   ~ ÖBH c 24A b u'5 W@ P0 1@ 'Ù P¦ 10 ) '(& %$ #" !" Ù I P7T S 7 ) X@ W1 w5 H 2¦ 10 ) '(U %H t 2GTPÁ SH Sv  & 1k w '80 ) ' 6& '5 w 1 & t )X@ WH 18 2 X#H c4 20 b ' 4 1 2 X%H W 2 95¦ 10 ) '(% wj5 W0 P '" i$  'sXP0 W& '5 } 1  B0 P 'U0 b '4 ~}    A d5 9¦ 1 )0( ' & %0 #" !" n I & t7 ) Xc¤k 18 9 X)H W¦ 2H t2 " I &5 $ 1 '(%8 ' u)@ W 9U0 x ! & '5  1 )X W 9UX2& Wq 6 & t X)@ WH 1 28u)( W %XuWA c '  9 uiA c& 'E  1uÁ WA B X9W 18 H 2   d¨ I7 '0 b 'X5 W@ P$ 15 'y P  'q 6 @ o 1 X0 c 'UuXW c 5 ' P7(   % 5 'H P 2(G 9 1UA ) '(& %$ #" !" I 1¦7 ) 2 bAu'A c@ ' P 0 P7 ' t87 ) X c & '5 º 1 ÖBH c4 2A b u'5 W@ P0 1@ ' P 7 P Tv S r9@ W7 9 28¤ 6  2 97E 2 95¦ 10 ) '(% wH 7 tG 2 PTn S & t )Xq W 9 # 4 18 25  1sr9W7 ) X@ W4 1 245 b0 P@ ' 987 6¶  0 P& '5 H 1& D )  e 0 d 9$ ' !8A )@ '1 w0 " )@ ' 9¤7 P w 9& H i 2G7 P7 t5 27 P 28` i P0& '5  1jA W ' 7 )8 2@  13H c 24A b u'5 W@ P0 1@ ' P 7 S`  5 9 1u& W& )# 0 P5 'q 1 1$ '` 6 @ ' P7w 2 A 9 'UH t 28x i 4 1 285 x 1 5 ' 14G 2@ Pq 1 987 ) (A %" ' I A & '   ÖdH c4 2A b u'W5@ P1 $ w5 ' PG 9 1U)A( ' & % #$" ! m  u) W 97V 2 0 %8 ' G@ !p 9 )Uu5 W4 15 2 1¦A )E ' %UH tG 2 TPSV8 9 #UuW5H P4 2b 'H 5 P8 2 i(%U$  !¨ ©   x ¢Ö A c 'U 6 " ! 8 I7 ) 2 )7@  98X)¦ W XcXn W Ú7 BH P r2& c$ # r!@ W@ 1H P 28 i R)Q G 9 1¦0 )( ' & % #$" !" º I uc& c T# SH S 3'$ !H ) 240 b X'0 c5 'v P & '@  1 '8u)( W 5 % P0@ '0 1" 'I x 5 1 IA@ '8 9v #  ' 6G 9 1UA )( ' %7H t 2GTP SH S  $ ' !87 )4 20 b X'0 c5 ' P rI& c #78 q  9 4 ~}         ' 6G 9¦ 10 )( ' %77 t5 2 TP S & '5 w 1 rI& c #U& q D 9 H 1 28n  Ú   d8 A 97 ) X@ Wq 1A 9& '¦ #u t X)a & W 4 ~ XucU c Ta S& '@ E 1 )U(  A I@ ' 98$ #" ! TÙ S 9U8 2  5  P7 Ù ~ 987 # X W b05 '& P i¨H S H 1 Xn c e 2 &  A#  £ 2 7 ! Ö #  £  ©¶   7  1 # # 1 0p   !  7  ¢  º £   d & 2@ '7 P 2}X9W8@ y 1 )ua Wq 1A 95 '0 P5 ' 1UX)x W A I '0 ~ '&A )@ 'P A )0 ' 'Á 6 97 2}  @ 'A P& '@  1ssr ¨7 S  1UA ) '7" b IUD 2 & '5 V 1 @  u1a W Â ~" 18 # 6¤s   r 9F P T 7 S Xuc7 c 28u)U W tu5 W7 P yU ) u5 W4 1V 2 5 %7 P T" S X) W  I@ '8 P@ # 1y !@ #5 Pk 1 9Rwj( W A %q ' 9 H S c74 2 b0'X@ W5 P 1$5 'x P )X W 9GH P 27 'V   H )V 2  %7 P T Sk 1 9@ 'A P@ '¦ 1 u)x W 0 )A ' ' 67 9 2D  5 '0 P& '   '  ÊÈ g   º h ä% É uË%  ä   ¨ d rIc7& @ A 95 '& P@ x 1 0 ) 'UubWUE t 3 2 U '4 b  67 2 5 '& P@ # 97 2E ' V % k  1u5 WH P r2ucW(X%q W9 ( 2 7 ' b 2  148 25  135 9¦ 10 ) '(7 %7 t5 2 TPy S 5  1 7 P¸ $ B¦  Ç 7 P`  V Ñ 'X& c( i H %& 2$ v ' PUTÐS 0 P ' 6 & % #E ) 0 )7 ' Xb7 W3 t  2 5 ¸ 1G 90 P '@ ~8 9H )¨ 2H S ÁA P ' 6& % #a ) & '@  1u1W(u%XW3 c q  r9H c2 ) 20a 7 !Â 'U ~ ÖBH  ¨`  7 )@  98X) W ucXn W  Ú & t u)a W 4 ~ XXcc7& p s 7 d X'$ c r!@ W@ 1H P 2 & t X)" W& I I ' 6 0 %' '@ & E 1 @ w 1 IA5 '4 1 r20 c5 ' P 8  £& '5  1 U )   I@ '4 1 r2& c0 # !X7 c 20v !  'x 6 rI& c7 #0  ! 985 I PUÂ ~ H S q$  !0 )& ' #¦A u5 '& Ps 7 d X'$ c r!@ W@ 1H P 2 ¦ 1A )@ '5 P& P #$x ! & '@ o 1 X)& W@  u1a W ~ 9G¦ 10 ) '(0 % X'0 c' 0 17 '5 tH P5 2 17 c X25 W 1UA )@ ' 17 ` i & '5 o 1 8 IH ) 2 7 ) X@ Wy 1 !k 'H ×5 & P` i & '@ z 1 )uE W ¦ 1 )u7 W5 2 P5k 19 w7 " )0  !3& '5 V 1 0 )A 'Â 'k ~0 1 ' 6 5 '& P@ # 97A 2 '(% & ' u)@ WU 9 03 ! '8@  1 u'& c( i 7 %" 20 Â ' PUTÐS 1¦)AE ' A %@ '8 Pq # 9UA 2 '( % k  u1@ W7 P 2XXcW(u%@ W 9  2 & t )u@ W8 9 #EA I5 '¦ 10 )( ' 0 % 'X& c( i %u W uXcWqU 9A 2' '6rI& c7 #0  !r9& W   dU@ '4 1 2 #U u" ' I7¶ 2  ' 6rI& c7 # w ~ ¦ 10 ) '(0 %5 '& P #@7 9A 2 '(% kj15 WH P r2cu( W %Xq W 9 2±X'cu& Wa  ~  5 ' 14A 2 !X" W I@ '8 Pm i @ H 1 2Á  H ) 27 & t #U@ & P5  Ð1 90 G P '@ ~8 9H )( 2 1$7 '5 tH PG 2` 1 & '@ E 1 1yU !5 25 P 1$ q ' @  17 ) X@ Wy 1 !& ) T# S 7 )A 2 X'7 c   } 2 9A@ '8 9V # 1jy W @ 'U P TS$ ' 6z I& '7 ) X@ W¦ 1A )E ' %(9  e A dU P@ $ 1 !7G 2@ P 1 Á¤ Î & '5 z 1 X)E W X9W U ) u5 W4 15 2¦ 1 )AE ' A % 'u8 cE i %Xa W ¦ 10 )5 '@ P& P #0a !& P #7`  )XÂ W5 9A 98 ' )¦7 A 2 'x ~ )XH WV 2  % & '   8 ©#&!A  #   © 0 d 9 u'WU0 t5 '4 1 2G@ Pq 1x 9 7 ) X@ WH 15 2¦ 10 )( ' %UH tG 2 TP© S 97 # X@ W7 P 2 b(& t X)@ WH 18 2 X#H c4 20 b' P7T S u& c )U{jSW7{ B7 ) X@ WH 15 2¦ 10 ) '(7 %7 t5 2 PT} S @ ' 14r2& c # 0 %V ' H )A 2 !H 1 28@  1A 9" '$ " ' I )uW '8 & ) wk& ' I 5 ¶ 1 X'& c X6" W$ 8 '¨ £ I8H ) 2¤¦ 10 ) X'& W0 ) 'U¦ b )U$ o ! @ ' PU(q % 'p 6 rI& c #UÂ ~ 1x Q d75 '7 P$ 5 ! 9 '$ !H )4 20 b X'0 c5 'Ô P Î}3 Y D  e¨f  & '5  1u) W A I@ ' 98 # 9Xs W H 1 28@ 1 95 8 IU PÂ & ~7 S  08 !0 )& '¦ # u@ ' TPS©& '@ v 1 )X{ WU 9 2X8 Wa 6 º 2 9 '$8 !& # I5 @ P 1¦X)º W u1º WH 1 28@ { 1 X9W 0 ' !80 )& '¦ # uq '8 9 )U$  !& ' º  d0 P 'H i 2¦ i cX& c T#© S& '@ " 17 Sº @ 1H P 28¸ i7 9Â 20 '8 ! )7  8 IH )2 U ) uW5y 1 !A@ '9 8 t u)" W8 IA I ' 6 0 % ' PX0 W& '5  1 )X W$ ' !8U )A ¸ B& H i 2G7 P7 t5 27 P 28H iH c 2u)WUutW57 P PuA W& '@ z 1 u)x W '$8 ! )UÁ 7 B 'X& c( i H %& 2 $E ' 7 P TV S A A 9( ' %X@ W 1©H cG 20 P '7A bq 'z 9 A I" '$ " ' I )uW 'H 5 P2 & 95 I PUÂ  ~ 4 1 2@ D 1 X9y W G  !78 2a 6 ~ 2G" P I 0 P& '5 H 1& D ) e ¨ d I '7Xb7 c U¦ b X) W 8 t )uW q w5 9 9A$ '" !5 & P i±& '5 p 1 8 I7 ) 2U ) u5 Wy 1 ! u'Xc7 c0 ¤ ! u1WX& cq in 9 & t X)@ W 1u& c@ #A 95 '± P & '@  1 H S A @ P& '¦ #x u  I@ 'y 1 !@ #5 Pk 1 98U ) $ ! XXccH8 2 #H )V 2  %  |6

' uæ@ A W` 9 A I@ ' 97A 2 '5$ P ! )u W 8 '@ y 1 A I8 ' )7XW@¦ 10 )( ' w % "U IA 25 ' uP7 c 2 7 ' b8 2  ¶ ' ÚaÖd& c T#S wq@ 9 9 '$A !8 ! #qq 9  '± 6 5 ` 1 7 ' b45 & P iz  2Vy % 1jn W U  t&7 #&  5 1 0 )7 'A ba '{ B7 ) X@ W 1&7 i @ %A P@ ' 1& t )Uu c 20 %0 ' '@¶ 9 7 1&  )¤A 9 '" ¤ I 9G¦ 10 )( ' 7 %7 t 25TPS(H S  U ) uW5y 1A ! X'c uwc70  ! '75 tH P r2x c 2y5  1UX)WsU ) u5 W 1yA ! X'Xc7 c $ ! ¦ 10 )( ' %&0 # !"" E I 8 '@  1y& t X)@ W 1qu1XWc&i F  |  ©%  # & £ 7 ©&  £§ ¦ #  7  1 # # 0 ¥ d¨ I '0 " '8 I X)0 W5 'v P  '} 6 q 18 9 # x % )UuW5y 1A ! X'Xcc7$ v ! '5uPW5¦ 10 )' '@ 8 q 1 A I8 '8 ) wk" ' I '@ P @ '7 P 2 t&X)& W& i iH2Vx % & '@ x 1 '(u%W5¶ 1 G U !© 2 Î { dA I& ' #@@ 9 r9W ' 6pXcuca  W ~ H 18 2 @É 1  9 u'5 W0 P '&¦ #Å u H SÈ  8 I X)W  '&@ l 1 & t X)@ WH 18 2 ui0 W X!W5¦ 1H )2 X)W  I& '7 ) Xtq W 9" ' I Xcu& c T#0 S@ '7 P0 2!  's 6 1q8 9 # % 0 & ' 5s 1 7 B( ' X%@ W1 t )X" & W$ " ' I )u W 4 1Æ 2 A I '& ) wk" ' I@ ' P72¦ 9& t )u8 W i&H iV 2 %& P7 #  $ ' ! u)W F d5 A 9¦ 1A ) 'E8 % #$" ! "¤ I s3 r D  t&X)& WG G !H PA 2@ ' 9G7 P T S5 9 1¦A )E ' A % '@XPW&¦ #A u5 'Á P0 P '@8 9 #H S 1H @ P8 2 i Xccu5 Wk 1a 9 ' 6 rI& c7 #0  ! 1"& #4 67 Bk  u1XWuc& W7 68 2H iA 2 ! G G ! PHA 2 '@R9¨ ws  3 r   I8U )7  w 0 ' 6¤X@ c8 9 #7X W¦ bU 63  X9E W q ' 9U0 2 ! q 1 97r2E c 8 '  y d¦   Ð17 S@  PÂm ¥ $ '8 ! #5 P~ }  q 6 'X& c( i H %& 2$ v ' U P TÐS  H  25¦ 1 )q V 9 A '@ ' TPSx± 2 @  1ua Ws ~ & 7 i 25U PH tG 2H P8 2s i  7 )o 2 X)W y 9 v 9 8 'hx q  ! y v9 " & i (D9h F ¤  && 8 @ ( h % h y ¤  8!@ ( % q 15 9 PUÂ { ~ PU u ¤h  r9H cº 2& 1& #@ 6B u9  yc  ¤& y 9¤¤ 7 6 % i¤ "  U Bu9 9 2 G  !8@ # 9 8 9 @H 18 2D i  9 #7X@ W7 P 2¶ b @  u1Was ~ 8 I8 )7 # TS ' 6 H )A 2 !¨A 9 X'$ c r!W@@ 1 PH& 2H S{ U P&  @& 1H #0 2 B0 PU '0 b '4 ~}  8   A d 9U8 t u)& W i8H iV 2 { %¦ 10 )5 '0 P T'S ÐwjS" W I( k ~ 1w I0 '& '3 ) Â '" ~ B 1q7 P8 2 i}r!& W&  i75 2 PU7 t XuW8 c u6& Wv 6 8 '@  1xu)WA I$ ' !0 )5 '0 P' Ðw0 S@ ' P 9 u'0 c X!5 Wq 17 PÙ 27 S 5 9U P &@ " 1 #7` 2 I8H )` 2 7 ) X@ W$ 1A ! X'ucU c$  ! & ' 5y 1 u) W X'$ c r!@ W 1@H P2 ) H 2 7 S  G 9 P78 @  1"7 # 2 0 )A 'Â 'k ~ 10 'm 6 q  r9& W7 # t8u)W5k 1 r9" W I @ 1 1¦7 ) 2¶ ~ Â ' ~ uSW 'X& c( i H %& 2$ º '7 P8 sA dU 9& t X)W&& i7 i 2( %0 P '7 i5 & PÂ i '&8 )k w '&I @ 1 u1& c$ #w ! uÃW" I '6 V  2 Á % 1u4 W7 B X'& c 6u" W0 8 '¤ £ I87 )© 27 ' t5H P r2 c @ A P7 ' b r9 W a 3  & '@  10 ) '&n  Ú d{7 ) X@ WH 1 25u1WE%XXWc}v 2 u8 c u)7 W5 2@ 10 P '$Ù ! r9Á W 1jH WA B3 9 a y  s  r   u) WG 9 1UA ) '(0 % X'0 c' I7 8 )2  9@ '" 1& # X65 W@ Pq 1H 1 2H S  5 ' P&@ #H 1 28v ) X'& cH 6 27 '& t )78 2G  !5A P@ ' 1¦X)s W 0 )5 ' Ð1H S  8 '@ 1 9'u5 W0 P& '¦ #& u7 c8 2 #H )V 2 E % I8H ) 2 1uuWc&@ i 9 B Xc& c T#S {   ¢ r!& W7 iº º 8  Ñ '5& PU # ut Ws
u t y Q v¤ h " ¡ P Q ¡ (  ' 6 %  i h 7 ¢   ! ' "&D e  y  ¤ ¤ ¥  09 i ¤  '&9 " V @ 0 ¤ q h 2 h  #$@ ( P % !& i D ( ¡ ' 7  ¢  x  x yy Q D P ( D ' 6 %  i 7h9¡   '!& " D e  Q D P ( D ' 6 %  i 7h¤&  ¡! #  y  ¥ ¤ 3 0 9 i 9& ' 9 " V  2 d   2   0 3 0 9 i 9  & ' 9 "  V ¡7 u "&m   2 k  k 0 ¢ 0  2 U  2 0  ¥ 9 F 9 i 9  ! ' 9 " V ¥q  R 06¡7 u & " § 2  0 ¥ 9F 9 i 9! ' 9 " V¥ ¤ x  ¡7 u "&U ¥  x 3 0 ¤ i 9! ' 9 " Vr 2  k 0 ¥ x Qh¡ ( D ' 6 %  i ! 7 9&¡! #  Q 06c c s  1 09 )  8 h % ¤ F 9 7 6 % ¡ e ! ' i v ¤ " u¤t 

9 1UA G )( ' %&$ #" !"  IDu1uWc8q i 9 ÐWu|Wo  8 IH )¸ 2 Xc& c T#Â S ÐTW±  7 ) V5 0 P8 ' #U u¦  |2
u t y Q v¤ h " ¡ P Q ¡ (  ' 6 %  i h 7 ¢   ! ' "&D e  y  ¥ ¤ ¤ 0 9 i ¤! '  " ¡ 7 @ 0 ¡ q h 2 h  #6@ ( h % !& i ¡ ( ¡ ' 7 "  ¤ ' ¤   0 9 i ¤! ' 9 " @ V @ 0 ¡ q h 2 h  #6@ ( h % !& i ¡ ( ¡ ' 7 "  ¤ ' ¤  0$¡7 u & " x @ 0 ¡ q h 2 h  #6@ ( h % !& i ¡ ( ¡ ' 7 "  ¤ ' ¤  0$¡7 u & "  @ 0 ¡ q h 2 h  #6@ ( h % !& i ¡ ( ¡ ' 7 " | ¤ ' ¤  h 0  @ 0 ¡ q h 2 h  #6@ ( h % !& i ¡ ( ¡ ' 7 " | ¤ ' ¡  h 0  @ 0 ¤ q h 2 h  #$@ ( P % !& i D ( ¡ ' 7  ¢  x  x yy Q D P ( D ' 6 %  i 7h9¡   '!& " D e  Q D P ( D ' 6 %  i 7h¤&  ¡! #  y  4 ¤ 3 0 9 i 9  ! ' ¤ " Va    0 3 0 9 i ¤  ! ' 9 "  V ¡7 u "&i  k  k 0 ¢ i 9 9  ! ' "9U V R& ¥   ¡7 u "& & R  ¥ n   R ¥  i ¤! 9 ' 9 " q V¥ f x ¡7 u & " ¥ i x ¥ x Qh¡ ( D ' 6 %  i ! 7 9&¡! #  Q 06c c s  1 09 )  8 h % ¤ F 9 7 6 % ¡ e ! ' i v ¤ " u¤t 

90 G P '@ ~8 9H )E 2 8 IH )¦ 2 B0A 9 X!8 W7 i@  1 © D Î k Í QÁ7 P TSÙH 1 2(5 %7 P TÙ S 1¦0 )5 '5 P& P$ #} ! '&5 E 1 )uW uXc@ W 97A 2` ' 5 0 P 'U¤ b A I@ '@ 9 9@ ' P8 i0 ( '  ' 6 H 1&  )8H ) 203 ! A 9 X'5 W0 P& '¦ #¶ u G  !#F 7 d5 '& P# w8 H t w & '@  1 @  1 '$ !0 )5 '0 P T'S$5 ' P Â 2 98X)H W 2G¦ 17 ) $a ! 4 1 2@  1(& 7 i5 2 PUH t 2GH P 28 i 8 IH )2 ' P&U 5 # t8 w 2w0 )0 ' 'k ~ 1$ 'E 6 7 ) X@ Wy 1 !& '& ) )U$D ! & '5 H 1 BUu'& c i(7 %" 20  'Á7 P TS y ¦ 10 ) '(% w$ " # !"" y I 2qX)& W5  1ja W 3 ~ " 9&  X)Wu cH c8 25 )0 P5 ' 1¦u)q W )us W A I@ 'q 1A 95 '0 P5 ' 1¦u)( W  ' 6y V 2 % '¶l Ú 0 d 9G¦ 10 ) '(& % #$" !" Å I  I@ '8 P@ #y 1 !@ #5 Pk 1n 9 & t X) W@ A P& '¦ #Ë u )u W  I u'" c IH ) 28 'y 6 rI& c #7& @ D 9 " 9&  X)XWc}¦ 10 @ '@ 1 P0 ' i¦   4 ~& }  X9 W 8 'q #5 9 9XD W P0& '5 H 1& D ) e dA ¨ I5 '7 P X& c" i$ v ' 'x 6 XI& cU # $! U 1 )A'(& % #$" !" a I H S   9q '5 97 9 r2c$ ! A P& '@ 7 1¤  @  1 u& c i8H i 2 $ 1@ '7 9G 24 1& 2I © D Î k ÍQ ' @ & 1 X)m W  Iq '5 9A 95 '& P" i $ ' & 9A IA '& ' ) 7 ) X@ WH 1 2(5 %7 P T& S u)W(H S  A 9 '¦ ik  1 '&@ 1 cuA c 'Â~4 ~}   A d5 9 1¦0 )( ' & %0 # !& E I  I@ '8 P@ #y 1 !@ #5 Pk 1 9RjwW(A %q ' 9 5  17 '& t7 ) 28G 5 !A P@ '1 " w )us W 5 24 1 28l I U %@  TPy S & t )X7 W& t7 )5 2 P 8 97 ) X@ WH 10 2 r!uW& c8 iH i} 2 H S¶  k  1$X'@ W7 P 2s b  2 )uW Iq  '8 9 # 9r± W sr `   I@ ' P8@ #y 1 !@ #5 Pk 1 9Rwj( W A %q ' 9H SD  & 98 I )X WD  0 P '8@ H 1x   H ) 2sr 0 dG 9 1U)A( ' & % #$" !"  I & '5  1 7 S y¦ 10 )5 '¦ 1 )7$  ! H ) 2@ y 1 0 P& '5 4 1G 2m P )Uu5 W4 15 2 1¦A )q '9 $ w5 '& P i5 a 1 9A5 '4 1 r20 c5 ' Ps& i #5 H PV 2  % & '5 Á 1H S sU ) u5 Wq 1 PU  i 1U7 )0 2 ! wx& W )Uut@ W 9 2 0 BG 9U 1 )A( ' & % #$" !" y I s  r & 7 S  I8X) W¸ 7 P 2X& c #0X!5 Wq 17 P 28} i º 28 9 X)H W5 2¦ 1 )U$  ! ØU ¤D   Ø X)W¦ 10 ) '(X%@ WA P '" i$ m '  D Î k ÍQ & '@  17 P TE S A I@ ' 98( # 7 ) X@ W$ 1A ! X'cuU c $D ! 8 '  d7 ¸ ) Xq W5 98 9$ #5 ! r9" WÙ I7 Sa  0 P5 ' 1q4 1V 2 % 2cXXc@ Wq 1 93r9W 5 9A PÂ '@ ~8 9H )E 2 @ 'U P $5 ! 9 8 I )72 G 9¦ 10 )( ' %77 t5 2 TPÂ SH S  0 ' !8H )4 2A b 'uA c@ 'P 9 9A@ 5 '5 97 9o 2 @ 1 4 ~D    $ d5 & 9 I '0& ' ) )7X@ WH 1( 2 5 %7 P T& S )ua W 7 c8 2@ #$ 17 ! 2¤& '@  1z7 ) 0 '8 !H )G 2q 1 PU ( i %Xg W 5 '7 P (l % & t )X$ W7 ! r2& c |ilU ' ub5 W 1yA ! '@ i5 9A P ' i H c 24A b u'W5@ P0 1@ 'P U ) u5 W 14V 2 @ % PUT" S X) W H )2 7 %5  TPS 0 % X'& c7 65 & P if8 '@ Ô 1 & t )X& W G7 ! 2¦@  P8& iH i2 @ ' 9U8 @ É 1 8 IH )q 2 G 5 9¦ 1 )XH WG 2@ Pq 18 97 )0 w ! H cG 2& P@ #$ 18 !@ #5 Pk 1Ë 9 5  1 $ ' !87 )5 2@ 17 P ( i %uW H 1 2A5 '7 P t& t u)0 W7 ! r2& c iu'& c( i %7" 20  '±7 P TTSU ' bu5 Wy 1A ! '@ i5 9A P ' i q 'U 9 28H 6G 24 1& 2I Ò 2 %75  TPS 0 % 'X& c 6U@ & Pn i 8 '@ p 1 8 t )u& W GU ! 2U5 & P& i7 ip 2 q '¦ 9& @ É 1 0 )A 'Â 'k ~0 1 '6 1¦0 ) '(A % '05 '7 PH t5 2 r9" W I '(7 %@  9 r9w W 5 '0 P& '5  1 k  u1& W& ) #E % %U$  !f© D Î k Íx Q '&@ 1 X)W&5  j1n W p Ú A d 98U ) u5 Wk 1 9& '¦ # u 7 Sw  H 1 Xo c  2  I@ '4 1G 20 P '80 )7 ' t u5 ck 1¦ 9 (( % 7 9 28 1js W P7A 2 'U¶q 15 98 P£ w 5 9 1uË W X)Ë W 7 8 t #7& 5  1j7 c 2  B@ U PÂ ¶ ~ X98 W@ p 1 5 5 PH P0 2 !@ 1 1¦0 )( ' & % )U@  PX W b0 )` ' 8 I7 ) 2s7 ) X@ W4 1 24Xb@ W7 1E   % & '@ } 1 8 9 # 7 ' b¦ 2Ë t Î k ÍQ d7$ ' !0 )5 '0 P T'" S )U$ } ! & '5  18H Sa  '(X%@ W 1& '5 Á 1 14 2 u'8 cH 6 r2cu7 W 2 b 2} '& 6 Xccua W 7 ~{ B7 ) X@ W1 $ w !AX'cuU c $ ! & '@  1 u)Â W5 9 1¦A )E ' %8$ #" !"  I & '@  1 & t )X@ Wq 1 u1WX& cq iy 9 @  u1a W ( ~ uXcH c r2$ W ! 'i wk9 ' BA8 9 )Uu5 W4 15 2¦ 1A )E ' %X5 W0 P ' i0  ' & P #U}  H S±  )Uu5 W4 1 28X#H c4 2 b¶ Î 7 d 7A t@ 'H 15 2 P5k 19 U ' bu5 W 1y ! '0 E ' 7 ) 2r9Ù W5 9¦ 1 )0( ' & %0 # !& D I & '@  1 8 t u)5 Wq 1 u1uW& c@ iÁ 9k 1 97 '7 t t8q # 9G 9 1j8 cq #9 $ w5 ' P 5 H P 2 u)( W X%uWA c@ '& P iy0 PU ' b0 '4 ~& x  @ 9 9@ ' PU7 t5 & P i X) W @  PUÂ v ~ XcXc@ Wq 1¤ 9 X9W X9& W ¤  dA5 9¦ 10 ) '(U %H t 2GTP S 1$'U@ t7 P5 2 1( ! xwW$ ! '@ i 9 & t )X& W5 )& P@ #0 1@ ' P q 1 PU & i8 iq #9  5 1 8 97 ) Xq W 90 )@ ' 10 y ' ( ' %Uq  9 @  1ua W© ~ BU& ' u)WU& t )0z ' G 5 ! P7A 2@ '¶ 9 G 24 1& 2U I 25$ 1 '(% I87 ) 21$ @ 'D 1 uc8 c T#S(& P7 #Á D B Î}Y  e¨  )7  A I@ '7 98 2 6G 5 !7 PA 2@ ' x9{ w sr  ± 5 1 G  !7¦ 2@  P8& iH i 2V& P #U  A I ' 6X@ W P0@ ! 9" 'x I 'U b8 2`  Â ' ~(0 P 'H i 2 i r9W&5  1z)RQ ¢ fv È f kg& p É ÈD ä i£ ä o  Ô g h f ËwÈ f k g p È @i% Í f g ¡ U k d SjA cq ' 9Gj1 W $ ' !U|2q SA P@ '¦ 1 )Xv W '&@ 1   6A I '$ !" #" I@ 5 P 1UX){ W 9UX28 W 6©& '5  1 8 IH ) 20 B 9G0 P '@ ~8 9H ) 287 S3  U ) u@ W r9W$A !5 '& PÂ i '&@ 1 t X) & W b4@ 8 P iEX% W A )0 ' 'k ~$ 1 ' 6 @  X9& WU #& t X)@ Wq 1 9X" W I3@ © 1 'u& c7 6 2 'D 6 5 º 1 X9 W k  1u& c #$! ( w jÃ" W I(& ' v   dq U 95 2 1 7 ) X@ W4 1V 2 5 % P7T" S X)E W & '@ 1 U 1 )87 #$ A !7 !o 2 u)x W & t X)¦ W7 5 21 BA" 1U #V  IA'X@ W5 PH PA 2!  'w 6 rI& c7 # 8q  9A 9 'X" W8 I5 #k 1 90 P@ '8 9 #4 1 285 } 1 7 'A b u'XW0 c '3 6 ¶ ' Ú A d$ 1 'U G 9 1j& c@ #A 95 'v P & t X) W  2X& c@ i r9" Wv I w 2 7 ) EA I 'U@  PUÂ Â ~H 1& a ) 'U b8 2}  q ' Ú d ¨ I@ 'P X) W IA5 '¦ 17  tXuW& c Uut8 Ww  r9p W @ H 18 2 i & '5  1 H Sn  8 IA ) ' & '5  1 H 1x 2 ¦ 10 ) '(0 % X'0 c' '@ &  1qX& c)  ç ¨ dA I5 '¦ 17  tXuW& c Uut8 Wx   ' 6E7 1&  ) rI& cU #Â ( ~ 1¦0 )( ' 0 % X'0 cE ' r9W&@ 1 U & t7 #& 5  1j7 c7 2A B¦ 1A )E ' A % u'A c '}& t X)" W8 I )U @ iA 95 '@ P PU$a !& '5  1 )U  i(& %k # ×@  1 7 ) I '7G   r!Wu0 c ! ' 6 H )A 2 ! @ H 18 2 iÁ& ' Ù A d 1¦0 )( ' & %0 # !&  I& '@  1H S  U i@ Á 1 '&5  1¨4 12 1¦A )E ' %UH tG 2 TPS3& '@  1H Sy  @ H 18 2v i & '@ Â 1" 9  r2& cq i r9" W I¤G  r!& Wa  a ~ 1UA ) '(& %$ #" !" I cu8 c T#a S & '@  1 980 ) '7 i ÁA PÂ 'A ~ u' W b}8 ' Ù  d 1¦0 )( ' & % #$" !" v I w 2 )X& W5  j1a W V ~ 5 4 1 28i PuA W& '@ ` 1   6s I& '8 )w" 'D I G 9 1UA ) '(7 %H tG 2 PTw S 8 t )u W  r2& cq i r9" W I P7T S $ ' !7|2@ S0 P5 '¦ 1 )uW )© 7 2G 9 P0 'H  Â5 9 u1& cq # 9@ 'v P 8 t )u@ W@ 9 9q '5 97 9 27 P TÕ S 0 %5 'k 1" 9@  9 © D Î k ÍD Q 8 '  d5 A 9¦ 10 )5 ' 1UU ) $! SHx  u'8 cH 65 2 1H c0 2" ! X¤ c 2zX)q W A I7 '  r2& c@ i X9& WÂ I cXuc5 Wk 1 9X9 W 5 9¦ 10 )( ' %77 t5 2 TPw S '&@ 1

S s8H H )G 2 PÁcHr2@ W u1& W )uV W 8 '@ ( 1 X'uc& Wa  ¨ ~ B0 P& ' I5U P  4 18 2 5¶ 1 X) W 95¦ 1A )E ' 8 %$ # !"" I '@ 8 Ë 1 8 t )u5 WU 1A )q ' 9 '@8 Pf i 8 I7 ) 2 ¦ 1A )E ' %8$ #" !" Å I '&@ Õ 1 5 1 G 9U 1A )( ' 7 % tHG 2 TPS '@ 8  1 S7m  " 9& 7 )5 2Ï P & '5  1& t X)@ W 14¦ 2 tH8 2U i @8 P i¦ Ê 6 A I '54 1 r2& c$ # r!cHA 2 ! r9W 9¦ G 10 )( ' & %$ # !"" ± I & '5  1 U P T S & t X) W& H )G 2 P2 7 B8 '7 )n  8 I )U$  !q '± 9 '&5  1pR)Q d¦ A 10 ) '(& %0 # !&  Iw& t )u& W8 I )7 q i 9@ ' P57 P0 E ! 8 '@ 3 1 7 P TD S 5 9 1¦0 ) '5¦ 17 )$ © !7 S  X'& c7 6 251 c70 2" ! XÅ c  2 H SÉ    X2& c@ i r9W" I '8@ q 1 5 9 9U5  P$7 ! 2 1"0 i 'U  r9 W G 9U 1A )( ' 7 % tHG 2 TPS IU A '& H )G 2 P H Sx  0 P" 'G I7 Pq  & '@  1s& '7 ) yk 1G 98 P w & ' @n 1 R)Õ Q A d¦ 1A ) '@¦ 17 )0  ! H S 'X& cH 6G 2 1 Ë 2 78 t7 # 5& P @ 1 95¦ 10 )( ' & %0 # !"" w I H Ss  G 9¦ 10 )( ' 7 %7 t 25TP S A IU '& H )G 2P & t X) W  X2c&@ i r9" W I H S  9  2m ~  k ~± 1 @ 'U 9  i75 & P i(  ÛE  ÖdH c± 2 $ 1q ' 0 P X'uc8 c #&s 4U  £ 0 § ! 8 7 '   ¥ !' % 0|    y d¦  G 9 1"0 i0 '8 !7 )0 @ ! '@ 8  1 0 )A 'Â 'k ~0 1 ' 6 Xi& W@ 8 9 )7XW@H 1 X2A c@ ' P &  T)Ó  U 7 t X7 c5  1UU )Å  A I ' zwXWc&( i u%W@9 ~& 4 0 ( ' 7 % @z 9 ` 2 P7T S U & t7 #8 @  u1H c2  B¦ 10 ) 'X$ W !w$ Ã¶ ' '@U PE  ` % u1WwA 9U ' HV 2 % 1xQ d7'(X%@ Ww 1 8 t u)" W $& '8 I )u3 W 14 2 8 t u)& W8 iH iV 2  % 8 '@  1 '@8 9 # ¶ ' } Ú A dA 9 X'5 W0 P '&¦ #u H @ 1 2Á  a  $ 15 '& P5 i0 P5 ' 1UX)W`H )A 2x ! 0 8 ' @} 1 H 18 2@  1 r9a W¦ 10 )( ' 0 % '5uP8 WU # u@ ' Pxuc87 ) '& Å  A dV 9 0 %@ ' 1q" 9q y 9 U 1A )@ 'A P 'u" W I ¦  6  I" '$ " '8 I X) W  ' 6 XI8 c7 #$ n !  IH )2 1¦A )" '8 I0 ) '0 i& '8 I )uE W " 10 iU ' V@ '7 P 2 A 90 '5 ! P87 #@  9 & t X)¦ W Xc50 P '"8 I )8 # & ' 5 1 4 1 2@ 1 r9 W G  !U2U5  P&& i7 i 2Dr9& W @ 1H S  '77 t5 2¦ 1H ) 24" bU I 2 '& © ¨ d I '&@ #@ 9 r9} W r9w W 5 0 P '&¦ #u '8@ ± 1 ( ' X%@ W± 1 & '5  1s4 1 2 5 9 P&0 #0 ! !"  7 ) X@ W 14r2@ c8 9H )G 2 P@± 1 8 ' l  ÖdcH4 20 b X'W5@ P1 0 w@ ' PVU P T S  9 '$G ! P&7 #@  9s  r `& ' 5q 1 @  1(1¦0 ) '@y 9 '5H P 2 1H8 2@  1 A 9 X'5 W0 P '&¦ #u H @ 1 2Á  fs  r @ ¦ 1 u)W5 0 P& '¦ # u U  t7X7 c 5U 1U )Ë  H ) 2 & t u)5 W4 1 r2q c 9H )G 2@ P1 PUTSs Iq ' 9 # X9Wy& t X)& W i&H iV 2 %(& '  ({ d )7X@ W 1HV 2 @ % PUT" S u)x W & t X)7 W t&7 )8 2G & !$ ' I7 8 )o 2 8 t )u5 W P&@ # 1$8 !5 #@ P 1q© 98 B& t X) W @A P& '¦ #Â u B& t u)W54 1G 27 PA t@ ' 1¦u)WVU P T( S U 1A )& '7 ) i w %U$ E ! '$!7|2S@0 P5 '¦ 1 )u W 7 )(  %(7 %$  !a& ' 5º 17 9E 2 A I@ '8 9 #  IH ) 2 k  u1W&& ) # ( % U %$ ! '@ 8 Ù 1H SD  5 9A P ' 6 0 % '(¸ % cXH c` 2  ` 6  I 5 k 1G 90 P" ' I& )} # r9 W U 7 t X7 c @¦ 1U )  '&  dA A 90 '5 !& P #Uq  9 sr `   I )H 2 U 7 t X7 c @¦ 1U )y  k  u1& W& ) # ( % %7$  !s 2 0 )0 ' ' ~k$ 1 '6 & t X)& W& i7 iV 2 % H S `@ '8 9¤ # & '5  1  ' 6u5 W P$5 !A 9 '&I y  x¢}  d7 cV 2 0 1 '& )H )V 2 } % e dA A P ' i78 2{ i Xc& c T# S & '5 ¸ 1H S}  1@H P 2 iÂU 9 2 $ ' !8U )   IH )2 ) X@ 7 W$ 1A !@ '9 & t )X" W& I I ' 6 %0 ' uPA W& ' @ 1 u)W©$ '8 !U )0 { B& 7 i 25U PH tG 2 PH8 2U iH c8 2 X)7 W XtW57 P XP0 W8 '@ w 1 X)WD0 '8 !7 )Ù A A 9( ' X%@ W 1"7 c5 2A P7 '0 b@ ' 9  I" ' $" ' I8X)} W '5H PÂ 2& 9 I5U PÂ  ~4 1 2@ 1 r9 W 0 '8 !0 )8 ' #U uq ' 97 )$ Õ !  e { dU ) u5 Wy 1A !@ ' 9Xc& c T#S8 '@  17 S  10 @ ' 1 & ' @ 1 u)7 W 251 " wU ) $!ucXcWa ~ ¦ 10 ) '(7 %7 t5 2 TPo S U ) uW5y 1 !q 'g 9 ` e A dA 95 ' P&U #8 t w A B 98& H iG 27 P7 t5 27 P8 2i B8 A 9 )Uu5 Wy 1A ! '@H 9 B¨U IA 2& ' xwq¦ 17 )5  TP S 972(G  !8@ #Á 9 95¦ 10 )( ' A % u'A c '  I& ' )8k w '&A I5 ' P& i @ 1 & t X)" W I5U P $A !7 !¸ 2G 9¦ 10 ) '(7 % t75 2 TP© S 'u& c7 6 2A ~ u'Wb @ ¦ 1 u)º W5 9¦ 1A )E ' %8$ # !""  I   r  '@ 8 ¸ 1 u1XW& cq i 9Â ' ~ Bk 1U 95 25 P 1UU ) $ ! R)¨ QA d8 9&  i75 2U PH tG 2H P8 2 i 1¦H )& 28 IA )$ ' !5A 9 '" I5 9 u1W %5 7  TPSDu1uc& W8 #0 65 ' P 'x 6 5` 1 A IA '& 's ) U ) u5 W 1yA !@ 'Á 9 uc8 c T# S '&5 ¤ 1 8 I7 )¨ 2A B¦ 10 )( ' % w u'A 0 cx ' X'& c 67 2A ~ u' Wq b  2 H 1 &( ) r9 W 7 ) X@ Wy 1 !q ' 9¤" ' I"& q )  2 BA c '"" I(  V % X98 W@ 1 R)Qy{ d )7X@ W$ 1A !@ ' 9 & t X)" W& IA I ' 6 A % ' XP0 W& '5 ¤ 1 @ ¤ 1 G U !8 2o 6 A IU ' &X)uWv c  9" ' I"& ) P& A '@ 7 1w  '&8 )w" 'Â I XcXca W  ~ A 9 'UubA cq ' 9VA %& '@ 1 8 9& 7 i5 2 PUH tG 2H P8 2x i '&@ w 1 u'Xc& W a~ B{& 7 i5 2 PUH t 2GH P8 2 iz@ U P @y 1 !" #" I@ 5 PU 1 )X W 8 '@  1 I8H )q 2 u'c5j1W5V 1 G 9 j1WX)H W 25¦ 1U )$ ! XcXca W ~z" '" I& Å ) )Uu5 Wy 1A !@ 'p 9 E 2 7 B X'& c i(%H& 2 $s ' PU& s A dA 9& ' I8 Å ) 0 )0 ' 'k ~1 w 0 ' 6 " 9 &X)XW c 8 I7 )v 2 A 9 '"" I&  )(5 '4 1A 2 '5$ P¤ ! 5 s 1  Iq '8 9 # r9 W 'UH t8 2U # t&H ) r2o c & i# w5 ¦ H P 2V % & ' q  { d7 ) XW@$ 1A ! X'cuU c $( ! ¦ 10 @ '@ 10 P ' i¦ o   Iq 'U 9 28x6¨ ws   r 9F H )2 & t X)" W $" ' Iu)¶ W 8 I )H¤ 2 t&X)@ W@ 1 j1XW& c i@V 9  ' 6X@ W0 P@ ! 9" ' I©  Û  ÖdH c 2 $ 1v ' A P u'Xcc&& #s dU  1A )( ' 0 %7 '4 b5 & P( i X%a W P7TSU %¦  5 P r9v W '@A P& ' @" 1$ B ( ' X%@ W1 Sw H  G  !U2Xy c   T6  G 9 1¦0 ) '(u%W50 P ' i"$ Å ' ©D Î k Í} Q P&U #`  u)w W U 0 t '54 1G 2 P@q 1D 9 k 1G 98 Pw '@ 8 y 1 u5 ck 1¦ 9(   % & t X)q W 9 # 0 )A ' ' 6 '7 b 28E  Â ' ~ $ '8 ! X)W F A d 95u1& cq # 9 '@ P u'c8H 62 @ w" 10 i0 '0 ! !U2A 9& ' XI W4 b 5& P± i rI7 c& @ A 95 ' P&@  1s2 4 ~ uA c ' 6 98U ) u5 Wy 1A ! '@x 9 '@U 98 @ 1 t&X)" WG IH P0 25 ! r9" W I I87 )¸ 2A B 95¦ 10 )( ' & %0 # !&  IsA I 'U& H )G 2¶ P X)W&5  j1Wa3 ~ 8 9U ) uW5y 1A ! '@9 t )X & W& H ) 2GP X'XcW&a  ~{ B )7XWqr9$ W ! '@8 PÂ iU P ¦  i(@ A P7 'x b u)W5 9 u1& c@ #A 9 '5 P 95¦ 10 )( ' % w$ & #" !"  I  I7 ' &7 )5 2g P %75  TP S8 97 ) X@ W 1$A !@ ' 9¦ 17 ) 2A b u'A c '@v P 8 '@  1E& t X)@ Wy 1U ! 255 P 1$ ' 1 28@ H  1 & ' )u( W 5 %0 P '5$ 1" 'x I 95¦ 10 ) '(X%@ WA P '" i $¶ ' & '@  1U Bq ' 9U0 2 !n8 IU )$ A !@ '¶ 9 8 '@ 1 )RE Q 0 d 98U ) u5 W 1y !q '¶ 9 A I7 '8 H ) 2Gv P 0 P& 'U  tu& Wv  XP0 W8 ' @¶ 1 7 )s   I 'qU 98 2s 6  I@ 'A P" 'G I7 P A B5 9¦ 1A )E ' %8$ #" !"  I¤A IU '0 b 'X@ W5 P$ 1 '5 PH S¤  U ) uW@X90 WA ! '5& P i 8 '@ ( 1 t&X)W4 b@ & P i(X%D W r9W 10 ¦ )( ' 7 %7 t 25TPE S & '5 Á 1H S `& 7 ) 25E P & ' @s 1 I8H )2   ' i k1 95u1x W 5` 1 A I5 ' 14r20 c '5TP 9G1UA )( ' 7 %H tG 2 TPy S & '@ D 1 SH  ¦ 1U  utA W 'Â` ~ '&5  1 & t X)W&X)W& 6 U %$  !U Bq ' 9U0 2 !Vk 1G 98 Pw '@ 8  1 )Rº Q d c7240 b X'W@5 P 1$5 'Ù P 1¦A )E ' 8 % #$" !" Ë I 7 %5  TP¸ S8 97 ) XW@$ 1A ! '@3 9 t&X)W& H )G 2 P7 P

6 23¦ H H CE 9 © gB 0B ¨B © 2 C ÿ P B ¦ H C 9 ÿ  2Q P@ £ 23A© 0 ¥B©  0£ 9A3  iV S C 4@D 2  g 4¨¦Q  4© ! S ¦ 9 4V 5E 0 g¦ ¨ £! P Q2H9 © 5 wB 4q  AC © © S 50 ÿ C hB 4 © 4 S ÿ ¨H 4 9H 2 9f ¨ ' CQ @ £ ¨H A 9 BE  9B© 20 £s  9TI9%¨p P C  4 H g I9¨vQ 23  ¨A £3  A' 0s ( 9AB   © S C 4 &I$#A "¤ ¡u 6H C 9¦G ¦ t  2p  3 4Q @ 4q  ÿ ¨H 4 9H 2 9E $ £Bt B 2¦  ¦ ' $ £ 8u ' 6H w 9i@ y 9©S Y  q y SB 5 ¨i £ p y 9AB q  ¦ C £2¦ ¨ £IB ¨ ¨  gh Cq £ H S 9A3  2 © 5© w© 0p ¥ V 9 w £1  ¦H CE 9 © g 0 ÿ £AE S 9A3   ¨¦ P£ V S Cv 4 2H ¨© 9 ¥ 4©D ¥ 9 ÿ CHI9H ¨ 9¦ P C £ ÿ 9A3   3  ' b  g¦ ¨ £ PrH SB 9¦  CB © ¨ ¥ Cq  © S CW 4 ' ' & %$1 `¤ q ¡ ¦ C £V S C 4qH wf 9 y 9AS Y  h y SB 5 ¨i £ E y 9AB f   Cx £ 5© 5 %0q P C@ ¦ H CE 9 © g 0 ÿ £A@ S 2V B  h3  2 © 5© w© 0h ¥ £h  T §© 9© C© S §¦' "Q Pq £ §I B B 2H ¨ 9 G© 1 CF £v  9ÿH C 9 ÿ1 5 9¦G 3 © 2 50 ÿ T d %9`A¦ C £As C  4¦  C 4B ¨s  B £ 2 5' 4 2¦ ¨ £A3A  0v 4 9A ' 7u 6 SH9 ÿ © 0 SAI£V ¨H ¥ I9t ¨ 2t ¦ H C 9EH gB 9Q 3 4 2 ¦   © ¨¦ § ¥¦£ ÿ 2 ©  3i  © S Ct 4 5© 5 %0i P Ce  H S 9© 2s 0 2r  59 ÿ B   ¨q 4 9A3 p  Q © 4 3i  SH© 9 S© Q G £© ¨¢ ¥ C¦£ B   ÿ 0B ¨B © 2 C1 Q P£ 2 9B2© H ¨ 0¦£ ÿ C X  © S Ce 4 B 9© 2 0D 5© 4¦ C £B 2H ¨© 9h ¥ ¨¦£ f P ¦H CE 9 © g 0 ÿ £Af S 2© B e  B 9© 2) 0 B £e  9ÿ H C 9 ÿe 5 9¦G 3© 2 50 ÿ T d9 A ` C¦A £c C b 4 © 2 C £B  A3 0 3  © 2 Ca   % P I£© ¨ ¥IA ` C¦£AU C © S C 4Y 5© 4 C £B  4ÿ© 0H SX 9 H ¨© 9B  W £ V S C 4UT § 9A© C© S¦ § "RQ P£ I§ 3  2H ¨¦ 9 G© 1 C F@A 9 BE  B £D  ¦ C  33 2 2' 4 2B ¨© £B  A 0@ 4© 9 8 7© 6 4  5 43 ¨ © 2 01) ( ' & %$© # "! ¡ ©    ¦ ¦   © ¨¦ §¦ ¥¤ £ ¡¢ÿ  

u 3  3  cU C   c    ¨¨ Ø3 SU D a¦) 4  '6 P« ×    U  S  Þ  ! ´ £  8  ª  " )y  ¨½½ G   ä  ae   4 3 f3  2  }C '3 Ss Dc q a  @ ¶ 8  ø 7  ' 3 ø  %RF P1 4& 0 3 %  P½ª ©u ¨C 2u AR D A    Þ 8   7 8  É 7 RR `& P E E D Û }  É 9 ¨ Ss P 2F3 0  Öw}  É 9 !E c DU ` acT Si P 3  D£  q    } 9 u § ¤Ï E 5 |E ~ ~} | 5E Ís ³ ÎRÑu& ¥  ³ `R3 P3 g  E f 5Y Ü STi P w   % E  ) o Ñ t P   %F3 0½ D E X 33 öU F E j(  5  fCc }   ÷ i3 h Ci  ¨ r T (  õ Å 3 6 6 3 et h C Ì3  RR ¾g  R t ¾ 6 ö¨ er  T (  Åõ3 U hÂ  C¨    Ì  À &s f e ¾b j( E h ¨ 5 3 d5  ô RU `u aR t P T %u A D& ' e p 7it h & g F  4 C BU A S  Pc@ `  ' 3 t  & g F & 4 ¤¨& P ( ' F 4 1Ê 4 ¨ xs PU  S&c % `óò  §   Ý F 0 0   )  µ Û  ' 3 8  s a qU D½ S G   © ¥ Ö §  (Q B G }  i 9 & ä v    §E F DF 0F 0 4 &  }  ( 9   äi&& g E R D! P & p w  X)w) Þ i 2 %!( p   ¥  5 Öv  t   § ¤Í ï& î u ís ìE ìE ì) ë E êé  s  ñr ð  &r  E u u  è5  ¯u) ç )   °ª   5  s E  c  s i  ¨ c   E ¯u r ¡  s s  E b ¡  E s s  )  E ~3 ~3 ~| R`RR P A&R F P 4R) A µ 9 E F DU 4u a  U 3 S D q)ªr " '3 W  3 0R 1 AU 4 au  R  P U Bu ae  Ó 7   y) " o 9 G 5E  Ïy ¨3 ~E ~ ~ |   æ ä c a3 Si D fR P å   0 F A 4   C BR A P ä  C 5 a&  E ' CT at P  ' 3 (  Ô5 aT ¤U Pã a  g Fc 4 ` â % B¨U A Su  Pc¼ ` F P 0F  4)T ¤( P á à ( '   u aR F PR 4 A  ß  F 6 0R 0Q P b 3 `C ½ S 8 G ¨ 2 AF 4 H( '    T xF PF 03 4  £ © T SU PT a P  & g F  45q 2 R  É Þ Ý '5 4  it  u § ¤Ü  E3 ) Ú Ú ¥ É ¥ x¦ 0 E %y Û ¨E Í |W& P   E %& Û v)  i 9 &  &U g) S  % c  `Uc a ¦a4  5 u ¥) |  Î ³3 Ú| `3 R P3 g(  § f E j h Ë¨r C 6 ¨ e È 3 Â 6  et h C Ì3  R ¾g    e ¨t  ( Ì ¨ mF T j3  Ë¨w  t p i3 h C f c U h T¨  È 3   ¨(  ¨ U ¨  R ¾3 ¡  i Ã E ji h  Â 6 3 ei h C¨ y  e gE j h&& d     W À s f es Ùz  s  fo e b ¾  3 5 s 3 c C C   bo  u  ¨ØCU `3 SU D a¦& 4  '6 P × acT a PFF 0F 0¬ 4  Ö   '( £  R c Pc `& ` £ %  ¨3 b `    o3  EE P g(   B qc S Di ´ W  ªu "!  E F DU 4T a ARF P 0FE 0T D A}5 aT t P   R %u A) D i '  'U P S&U %a ¨& T A U % Scb ai ` PEU g S1 £ 0    S Do q U `T S P b & ` 3   u aR U P ST& P E BQ D ½ G !  E c D ` F 5 4F 2F 0¬ 4 5 Öv   ( ' 3   `F) 4 i  r b ¨ `5C 23 A&  Õ 9 WÔ  EF P 45¨ 2 Ae  7o  Ó  T SF PF 0 0 %Ò $ 8 7  § ¤Ñ ) 3 ¥ E ~ ~ |T S Piw  R U P& a fR5 P 9 v&   9   R& ` 3  F PU 0 SÐ  T  P(  )3 ~ Ï¥ ÎRE |u Í ¥R `E P g (5 f E j h¨ ËÂ  ¨6 ¨ e È  Â 6 3 et h ÌC3 R R ¾g s Y  e¨    Ì m¨F  jT3  Ë¨w  p È g½ Çg Æ (3 Ê h C fb 3 c h T¨  È 3 É  C i  ¨U ¨ R  ¾3 ¡  Ã c Å  Ä v Ã Q À E j( h 3 Â 6 e 3 Ái h C ¨ y  e g E j h& d &     À s f& e ¿u x   s fq e ¾bi  3 u  3  cU C  c     ª  "iR  `Uu aR t P  ¨&T % AuD&¬ ' e p i 7  h F½ 4 3 03 R F PU 4c ST aU P S E  DFU 4 a  U  S D q&F £ 4 3 S D q E P g(  3 % g3 1 0 x ST& c P u %¼ »   ¡ º  p  ¹ ª  "¸ h §  &3  E B Dbu ·U D S ¶W  µ ´ ( ' 3 8  ) S B %  $ w  t   § ¤³ 5 5 s ²5  uu )  E ±r °  u  ª¡  )u y ®§  s )  y ¯  ui  u3 ®s  ª¡  E s u   6 3 03 R F PU 4c S aTU PS pei 7  h  q D E  DFU 4 a  F %3 03 ¡  ¬  & P U B a£3 S D« q s P FU 4 a1  4U¦a 4 ª  "©R  `T1 P 4Uu S C& S  ¦¨4§8 p 3 0C  a¦E 4F g 4 ¦   S D¥ q R P& A R  PF1 0 0TR P A) ¤ £ q¢ D U 23 S D yT a P ¡  9i   ¡ p it  u § ¤ ( 5  RE c   u  )3 u  s s )  u u )   )     ¡  s s  us b ¡  E E u e  E & P 13 4 g R  PC BU A S Rc P ` c P `FU 4) S U f STU Pu aR  P 1 AU 4) a E f D& Q uy xF a 4cU `¨ Ss P F 4     3 0(  3 F DU 4 a     1  41 0C c S ab ` %  ( '     y) " o 9  G  § ¤| ) 3 ¥ 3 ~3 ~} | ¨ {E zs y) y x w  v pCR n u kt ¨ T 3 U hs nr h ev h q p (  3 o h R n w k &s f£ e 3   ¨ m)  fcc l3 @  Y k E ji h 3 6 6 3 ei h C¨ y  e g fC s e)   d  3 5  3  cU C  c   y  " R  `RF PE 43 gF DE 0U Du aE  DeT  P   y xF a& 4   w % t  E R DA Dv U a U `u a Rt P E  g Cs Sr q pei 7 # h gF & 4  f 3 f ed 7 E U Pc S ab& ` E %R DU A ST¡ P Y X W  V   ' 3  U 4T SR PQ P I ©   H G 6F 0E 0 D BC) A @ 9 8  8 7 65 43 2 1 0 ) % ( ' & %  $ ¨  "#!          © ¨ § ¥¦¤

&3 ³3 Ú Ú ¥!! ' 3  1) 0 xc S e7 )gU& S %&cU `T S PU B ¦a3 4 i ¶ & ³5 Ï¨ Î5 ¥q Ï `RE P g(   f ¨¨ (  ¨ U ¨  R ¾3 ¡   Ã E j h¨ Ër C 6  e ùoÈ e3þc}  I ÷ b  5 § f  ÷   s f e ª ¾i  3 5 s 3  cC C  b  o)  ¨¨ Ø SU D ¦a4& '6 P ×    U  S E Þ£   o y " 6  033R F P 4Uc ST aU Pq S u a Rt P   R % Au) D i '  S D qoR `t P R  P&¨ Bc A `3  D1U 4 auC u aR t P E  gC s Sq  q DÉ3  DcF ` 4U S (t f 3 Q D i G 6  0Ri P 3 } D É ý F U 4 ab& ` E % Û( '  8  3  Dc ` F 5 4F 2 01r 4  Ö `cE ` D t  §u ~ ¥¦¤  3 & g1 U 0T S¡ P r X ¨cT SE P g&F U 4 S&) f } 9 &3 ³3 Ú Ú ¥Iy Üu ¨@  ¦x0&E %( Û }( '   ÝT 0U P Sy" §F F 4 0&   % ¡5u Í5 ¥5 C ÎE ¥) ¥ v  `R3 P3 g   f E j h¨ Ër C 6 ¨ e È 3 6 6 3 et h C Ì3 R  ¾R g   e¨    Ì ¨ mF T j3 ¨ Ëw  pHi  3 Ê h C f c3  hcT ¨  È 3  HC i  ¨  c¨   ¾3 ¡  W Ã E j( h 3 Â 6 e Á( E h ¨ ¨ y  e& g 3 j h & d    À s f euu ü zw  fs e ¾bv  3 u  3  cU ¨  b  o  ¨C ØU ` SU DF a) 4 '6 P× R3 P gUT Si P cb ` · 48  E §  &  Û  É G ( '  £  Ý a3 qU D½ S  G   ! © ¥  # Ö ª  "R U `5 aT t P % ¨u T A& D v '  'U P) S %UT a A U %c S ab`&3 q5 D3 03  RF PU 4 ScT aU P¡ S s PF U 4T a AR} P Y û )  §  E  Dc`&F ) 4 F 2F 0 4¬R Ö Wt  u § ¤Ú 3 5 ÑE |ª | ¨3 ~3 ~# Ñ 3  D1U 4 au F AF 4 0 & % f 0Ý T 4 ARi P fcr ` & ä 9b "  ù È V  ³33 ) Ú Ú ¥ÉT Si P £R E P  D   £@  r 7 U g S) % cU `T S P&U B ¦a3 4  v ¶ Er ú Á Ã q ÷ b ¾

È  äÍ f& ä Ê Gä3   ä  dG A 90 P@ ' X9W&7 )U 25 t P7  Î k Ív Q '&@ ( 1 5 1 9"& H ) 28  d }  ç k YQ F d ¥ @ 1 PU@ 1 uw@ W X9 W b Â 2 9U 2 ~ %U&   A 9 '(H %¦ 2£ ¢ X ' XcW&a ~ 8 '7 ) " I7 9 2( ~ @ U P Â ~ r9W&  ÈsÉ f Õ ä ¸ ãä¡ ¸ h äq% ¡   g f   Í Æ d8 A 9U ) u5 W4 1 25u1( W u%XWc5 9 u1Ù WH S ' 1j& 5 W@ i 9 )X W 57 P  ~ 5 '& P5 #" 1 T# S PUT S 5 H P 2V& %G  !0 ) ' 6 ¦ 1H ) 25@ 17 P ( i u%z W H )2 " ' rI W4 b@  P&º i ucXcWay ~ 7 ) XW@y 1 ! 'uXc7 c0  ! '&5  1y8 I )H{ 27 c 2A b u'5 W P@0 1 '@y P  I '@& P5 #y 1 !85 # P@q 19 wu( W 0 %@ ' 9 & t X)@ W 1HU 2 tX@ Wq 1A 97 ' bX)W U P TSD¦ 10 )( ' & %U )@  XP W b0 )Ù '& c T#$ S@ ' 98 #  2 A I& ' XI Wb w@ 7 & Pq i ( 2 7 9 2 (1¦A )E ' %X5 W0 P ' i0 Ô '   ÎDk Í Q`& ' 5 1 @ 9 9 u'A c '&@  1@0 PU '0 b} ' Í G 90 P '@ ~8 9H ){ 2 c&T#7 S& t X)& WH ) 2E '  % '57 P(  % PUT S G  !U2U5  P&& i7 i 2DU 1U  tu5 W P '&5  15 9¦ 1A )E ' %UH tG 2 TP S @ '7 P 2U  ' 6x V 2 ¤ % 7 ) X@ W1 wqA 98 ' #Us u A ) ' iU  5 '7 P (Ë % 3 e d¨A IA '& '` ) 0  '&5  1`7 ) X@ W4 1V 2 %57 P T" S X) W 8 ' @y 1 uXcW q w7 9 2 '5 '7 P (Ù %5 9A 90 '0 ! !7 2 5  15 9A P 'q 9Á # 98Xi0 c '&Ù G 9U 1A )( ' %7H tG 2 TP3 S & t X)& W )@8 P #@$ 1 '5P A P& '@ 0 1& ' a ~H PA 2 X'$ c !H 1& Â ) r9 W u1w W 8 I7 )¦ 2 B 1$U ' VA I '@@ 9 9@ ' P&& I7 Iy 2 0 )0 ' 'Â 6 17& ) 9 28© U A Pq ' 9# '&5 v 1 @ E 1  I7 '  r2c&@ i X9" W I 'V 6 XI8 c #7& @  9©G 9 j1& c #@A 95 ' Pn4 ~}    d 95¦ A 10 )( ' % 0 w 'uA c 'z& t X)& W )5& P #@0 1@ '¤ P q 18 9k #} × S7p  7 ) X@ W 1$X!5 W@ Pq 1A 9 '5o P & '@ y 1 & 1w H 1&  ) V 2 %

i ¤h &  m # "'8 ü áX ß U} ê â¦ ñ8 Þ áÑ ã F ò g ä  æ â¾ êt ü ß¦ üx ït á »ý ê ü üm¾åx ë7 Þ áb£¢ ê ã Þ á5¥  w á ¾þë¾ ê ß  ¨¦¾ ë ë8 å Þ¾ ê ãg å b à Ý ã ß7 å  Ý¼ ã »áë£  ê üX ü Ý% û ¹ü ê »ã ê ãt å ñ& ã G â ÿ Ý ñ ü ümt åD ñE ~ îdl ì| b â ¾Ý ê ã8 å ¾ð êm ï Ýbx æ á ã åÉ î ãsB í áF ì  úÅ Ý 8 å á ïÐ å t á ñÆ ã â»Æ ê ñ¦¦ Þ ï8 å á ü8 á  ¤ ¦ ¥ üx ï á ¹þb ë Ý±w ú  ñ ÍãG ê¼ ÿ ü¹»ëb êg å Vàx éI á t æ »âê éRm àB Ý Þtâ¾H ê  á ã ¹åB ê Þ Ý ü ümÃ å  ÝÂ ã¦ üx ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þ ¹þ»ët ê ß    Ýj ã 8 þ át ü ß 5 át   b âx åÞ ü  g à ñ Íã êb ï Ým»æb ëÃ å òF ä8 ç ãb ü å û á ñ ãi¾âêb¾ë êg å 8 àx á ¾ïx ê á ñH ã 8 þt á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ëx Þb üt åñ ï x át ü ß³å ÿ Ýj ñ t æ »âs ê ¨ t þ ße ãF ü o ¨  t  ¤ » û8 ë á ñ âbx å ÞH1 ~  ò äl | t æ â» ê â ï å áò átâ» ê¦ ñ ÞmF å | ä  á8 ï áG ñ ÿHü¾H ê ¹üê¼ ñ7 ì ¡ ¤ ¾ á ë   ¦ å ¾ï ê ü áF þ ¦¨t ëb ñ æ¾ ê ñi¾ü¤ ê ¦ üx ï á þ¹b ë Ý±ú  ú ÝHB ã á³ ü w å  ÝX ã »â ê 8 ü ább æ å ü8 ü| á  à »ëb ê| å yàB éw á ¨»ú ê üb ü ¹åB ëw Þ  Ý ã ÿ ÝÑ ñ  ¯ ¬¦ § »  ¨¦¾ ë ë8 å Þ¾ ê ãg å b à Ý ã ß@ å  â8 åj Þ  ã å ñã 8 à á ã ü( ¨ü   ¤  ü8 üB á Þ Ý ïû  áb â Ý ïû  é ïb Ý ï8 ï7 á þtâb å üb ß Ý¾ ê8 þ á ã D å ¾üD ê ¹ü ê ñ¼ ìQ ¤ x ï át ü ß á ñ ãi ¨    8 þ át âx ý á7 ï þt âå þá â ß ã¦¨ ëX ã â å ãt ü âmB Ý ÞF5 áe   e ãt üR ß g à 8 ü ¾áë ß¤ ï  á ñã x át Þx âd á 8 s ¡ ¤ | á à¾ êã ï8b áh ¢ i Ý ábæt ât å¦ ñÃ Þ  Ý ¾üb ë å¼h ~g ü  àx ï áG ãm ã8 â áX ß }  á ï± ú8 çx ü ¹Þ ê ûb Ý ã) ¤ æ ¤3á±` | ë¾ êg å à B éÑ á v â ße w æ¾ âI ê m à ÝBt Þ â¾Ã ê  á ñÂ ãb úd Ý 8 ü Þ¾ êe ã ¹ü êx ï áB ãb Þ¦ å ït å¦ ñÃ Þ t á¼ ñj ì ¡ ¤ | á à¾ êã ï8b áh ¢ ÝHT ã úÍ ê ï þ ¾ëx ë áw ÿ 6 ¨ | å ¤ à x ï á ¹þb ë Ý±& ú  á ñF ã »âê ñ ÍãG ê ÿ8 üb áb æ å ü8 ü| á R à  á ñã ú Ý&  á ï ß ãåt& â á ñt ãb ç| á  à å& ü á ñ ã »âb ê| å 8 à á ï ü8 ï á ¾þëm±Ý7 ú  á ñ¨ ã Íúê x âm á ¢{è ¤ ¦ ¥ üx ï á¹þb ë Ý± ú »ï8 ê á ñ ã  æ â¾ ê ¹ü êb â åm æb ïx Ý áï t þb âÐ å  æ â¾ êx ã »á8 ë á7 þ t ç æ â¾ ê ã8 å áB ïÞ ¨¦ ëX ã â å ãt ü âmB Ý& Þ  á ï åH ü8 ï á ü ß8 ç8 ïb á ¢h8 Ý á ïm¤ Ý H ä g ¤ 0  üb¦ åH ã ã» ëx ßg Þ )¦ êþ 0 ¨8 ï áb¢ å¤¹üê 8 ü á¾ ë ß¤ ï e ãt üt ß  ¡ ÝR ï  ú ÝFx ã á ü @ å  æ â¾ êB ãt Þ ß ïe ã ü âbB Ý Þ3£¨¾ë ët å ßs âg å à çb â ¾Ý ê »ã ê þ þmå } âz y ¡ ¤  á ï å¼e ÿ ãT ú Ý ü á üÉ ß  Ý! ã  ÿ Ý¤ ñ  ã ßmu Ý  á ïm ß ætÉ ý  Ýã Íãëx ßÃ Þ x) ê) þ »ã| ê t þt â¤ ý  Ý ¾üëbR å  ¨  âg å  àb ç á ï¼ åe ÿ Tã ú Ý ü á ñ ã¤t æ â» ê ¾ü| ê àm Ý ã ütB ßÞ þ á¾þêmb 8 Ý6 ¢ ¤ å ëb å8 ï áx âm áÐ æ ¾âÃ ê ¦ üx ï át ü& ß b ú Ý © ¨» ã ê ïme Ý whg å  à t á ñ¼ì v ¤ 8 à á ñã á  ã8 å áB ï ÞI ã Ý¤ â  Ý þ ¦ üx ï át ü7 ß  ã üm| Ý  à ü»á ë ßÃ ï  á8 ü á ñÂ ãb ú Ý  ü8 ü á¾âë±ßB ú át üß ë ¹å  êX ãx â á ã5 ÝÑ û t á ñi ã  á ã» ê û ü á þF ãt å ñ@ ã t þt âb ß Ý±i ú &Qu$ "  ê ãb ã Ý»¾ëx ë áA t þt âå ã ß å áx â á¦ ñ Þ âd ß  Û çx ï ám¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý ` s ¤ ü8 ï á¹þb ë Ý±H ú  Þ »ýB ê Þ á ûg ü  ÝX ã â»¼ êt ü þm ïÂ Ýÿ éX ¨ b á b ï å¾ëtB ß ¹Þ ê ã ït å ûFt æ »â ê â¾ ê¦ åX ãb âB ÝI Þ ¹ü»ëb ê| å yàB éj á B ám Þ å¾ ëÑ û ¨£»ëëbx å Þ¹ ê ãg å à é  Ý ã ßÐ å  Ýã 8 ü ¾áë ß ï  ãt Þ ß ï ãt ü âmB ÝÞ t þb ât åÐ ñ  Ý¤ ã x ï át üÄ ß át ñ# ã ÿ»Ýë¾ ëå 5 ç 3s Ý »Ý ë ã ß¤r 4 T ã ú Ý üm ÝB ï ¹Þ¤ ê R ä b ü åÄ¦ ñt Þ ß7 ü ¦ üx ïm á æt åb â| å  à ë¾ êg å Vàx é á 8 þ át üß ¨¦ëtb â| Ý | à b àB Ýd Þ  ã ümF Ý Â ä¡ ¤ ¨£¾ ë ëx å ¹Þ ê ãg å b à Ý ã ß7 å ám â Ý& þ 5 át   ¹ þ ëßmB Ý¤ Þ »ãê%Íúê  ë ß±B ú át ü ßHáx   ¾ þt ëb ß Ý¼ ÿ »ã êt ü ßs ñ ãsyçb & ¡ f ¦ fq " (  üm åR ã  æ â¾ êt þ âg å 8 à áÃ þ ¦¨8 ëb á ¢£ êã é» êm âb æB ÝÑ Þ | å ü¾u ê  æ â¾¾ê»ëD ê! p  ¤  ü8 ï á þ¾m ë Ý± ú  ÝX ã »âg ê ã» ê  æ ¾â ê ãb ï Ý ü ¨o   ë¾ êg å à é B á ¾ïx ê á ñ ã&m á æt åb â| å à  Ýã 0 ¨ ï¤ ã ¦¨t ëb â| Ý | à b àB Ý Þi¦ üx ï át ü¨ ß »ëb êg å Và éè ¤x% n 3 g e m ¦ ¨8 ë á ã| å ¾à ê í Ýt ï û û¼ å üb¼ åÿ 8 à áã  é ü( ¨ üÄòH4   á ñ ã ïb±Ý7 ú % $ 3 9  9 fr¾ âj ê 6 ¨ å¤ þ x ï5 áG ûI l  á ã åµ ï  àt å û übf k  á ñã ãt  å ñ ã ã ïb5 Ýx û át ï6 & j " ¹ å ê¦ ñ8 Þb Þ åFm äx åI ò t þ â å%b ït Ý â¦ åÂ ï% î i¤»ëb êg å Vàx é% á ï»8 ê á ñã x ï á ã»t ë ýw Ý ãH¦ üx ï át üi ß ïb±ÝúF( m ü åj ã  æ »â êe ãm ü åg ÿ | á ¾à êF ã t þ âå  æ â¾X êh ¨ t Ý â âå ¨¦ëm æ »â êb ü å áx ït Þ â¾i ê b â å ü¾ ê »ã ê t þb â åib ü¡ g 93 9 2 f és¹ þI ê | à á ñI ã B át Þ â¾ êÑ ü þ8 á ãå éx  ï á±»úê¾b ë Ý ï ûb ü å% ñ »ëb ê| å yàB éi á v â ßme d  ¤ ë¾ êg å yàB éi á  À ¯ ¡ b ïÝ  £ § V²H «  úÝ ë8 å á% þ ã8 å áb ï æiG åb á £¢x êx á8 Þ ái ï  Ý ¹ü ë) å ã üm| Ý à ç0 m ïÂ Ý) ÿ »ï8 ê á ñ| ã  ñ ÍãêGI ÿ þ8 á ãå é»B ê Þ Ý üm ü å ë»b ê| å yàB é á ú¨ Ý ã ¾Ýd ë  å áb£¢x êB á Þ á ï ¾áëb û8 Ý á ûH Ý7 þ £¨ ë âb¨ Ý ãd Ý  B ¤ 0  üb¦ åI ã æ»â| ê  à ß ütm âB ÝÞ á à¾ | ê ã ¤ å ¹ü@ ê 0 ¨b ï å ü8 üx á8 Þ áâ x ât á ñGÐ ÿ  þb á¥ ¢ á¾ ê ïB ã á ï 5 áA   âbx å Þ »ãêÉ Ýü á à¾ßb | ë Ým@ ¢ ü¹ ê ñ| ã  úR Ý »ëêbg å Vàx éÉ á t æ »âêm æt åb âF å ä ¡ ¤ 6 ¨  å3 þ  å ¾ü¾ë êg å yàB éá ÿ áÉ x â % 9 8 7  þ áb£¢x êB á Þ áÅ ï ¨t þ ße ãF ü ¹üê ñÅ ã ¾âê ¦ üx ï á üt ß  á ñ ã b áb æ å8 ï áb6 ¢ å â 5 ¤ 4 3 ¤ B á Þt8 â át þ âb5 Ý û8 ü á ïm ïB Ýi Þ æ»âêmb Ý æm â Ýb ï ±Ý& ú t þb âb åx ç ü0 b ü¦ å ãb ú Ý 2  b Þ¦ å ïã æ â¾  êx û8 áb á 1b ï ±Ý8 úx ç ü0 b ü å¼ ãt æ »â ê ãm å8 æ á»8 ë á þ t þ âb å  æ â»s ê £¢x êx á8 Þ ás ïb ú Ý ütb â8 å| á à åHb üi å 8 þ át ü ßHb ü¼ åH ÿ ã» ê ãt å ñ¤ ã t þ âm ß ±Ýú ¥ ¨ á¼ ñ7 ì  ¤ 8 üx áÃ Þ  ) Ñ Ý »â¤ ê  ü( m ü åã ã X â¦ å ã ïm Ý| û ¾àD êb úÃ Ý © ¨B ã ¾á ê ï å' ¢ á¹ þG ê| ÿ ådb ï ±Ýj ú 8 þ át üG ß ¹ü ê ¾ë êg å yàB é á  ã å ñã þ á 8 ÿ Ý ñ ü &% $ #§ " x ï á â¹þês!t þb â& å x ïm á  ¦ å ã »ãê@ ñ    ¨    ¨t þ ße ãü  ¤   ü ã ü¹»ê| ë æ¾âê»¾ë êg å àjt þ â¼ åt üt ûb ß Ýb ï æ  ã8 üá  éx ï áX ã â»u ê  ñ »ãêGi ÿ 8 þ á ã å¾x ê Þ Ý üb ü) å ¾ëêg å yàB é áÑt þ âb å t üb â ¾Ý ê ãx å ¹Þê â& ß | à m àB ÝÞ ü8  üt á »â êt ü ß   t þb â7 å  ët åm â Ý¦ üx ï5 á û ç  àt å ûÐ ü  æ â¾ êt þ ¾ßB ë Þt¾â7 ê ¾ë êg å yàB é| á  úÝ ¨x © ã »á ê ï å§ ¢ á¹ þG êF ÿ ³ å m á ¢¦8 êB á8 Þ áR ï  ü ï8 át üÂ ß ë»b êg å Vàx éI á  ã üm¤ Ý Ñ ä ¥ ¤  üb â ¾Ý ê ã åü »éê âX å æ ïm Ý t þ âj å ü¾b ët å ß¹þêX£¢ êt þ ¾â³ ê ïm±Ýú 8 à á»t ë¡    Ý ïu û  æ »âG ê  ÿ Ýb ï æ þ âå ãX â8 å Þ Íýt êb â æ¾ êR ü ) å ü¹t ê ë¾ êg å Vàx ét áb ët åb â Ý ü8 ï á ûb ú ÝX ã âx| á x àm á æt åb â| å ¤ à  á¼ ñì õ õô ó ö ù5 d  d ø G ÷  ö m æ ¾â  ê â ï å áò á¾â ê ñ¦ÞmF å ä  çm â Ý» ê ã å »ð êb ï Ýmx æ á ã åî s ã íB áì 8 çX ãx â| á x àm á æ åtb âF å ä ¾ë êg å yà% éè 8 çX ã âx| á àxm á æt åb âF å ä X ãx â| á  àB ß Þ¤ Ý Ü Û ÚD Ù Ø& × ` Ö ÕX¤ Ô Ó ¶ «¹ B ¨ T& °  ¬B  ¥ «¯B  «¦ § 7 ¬ tT ° ¦ «s «x ¡B ª ¹« ¨³ ½  ½ ¯§ Ë ¯lV¨ t °¦ § ªÂÁ  ¨¦ « « §»x   ª  T ¨| § } £x ¦³   ¬B Ò ¥ £TT° ¨ ¬ m®   w §   TV¨B °¦ ªd  ÊÑ  Í´s    Í®¨s § ¹«Ð d ¨ e Ê&  lÏ¦% ©  ¬ ½lw ¨ H Î  ° §±°Ä ©  7 « B  ¢« H §  ³ Î y¶Í°  B ¡ ª Ì ¨H ½   ¬g  £ ¹«7 ¨ ®sT¯¨V° ° ±Áx ¬  %  ° ¡±T°% ¨d © »B  g º x £B t «B ¯  ¯| § X ® T¯V¨x ° ª ¾B  x  « ° § ±x ° °x ¡º ËB ¦ ¬x s « ¡  t § ¡ ½l ¨ T¨ ½ ¯Tw ¨  ¯i § ¬B  ¥x ¬ 5 ¯ ¬ § ¾i   » bX ® T¯ ¨¤ «   TV¨x ° ª¤  lÊ)  ° «g  £ t  Tj ° B °¦ ª »x  x É « }°»x   ºl ¨¦ « «t Ã ² ¹«³ ¨ °T³ ¨  ° § ±È ° ©t   « «¢°  ¡ «  ¬    ¶» T ¨| § } £x ¦ Å«  Çx ¬ B«s¤ ¡   t § ¡ ½l ¨ T¨ ½ ¯Tµ ¨  ¯A § ¦ ´ ¥ ¨¦ « « ¾§B  Æ ª y°Å¦ «B ¬  ¯ ¬¦ § »  e ¥ ¤ « ¾B  g º B £x t «B ¯  ½ ¯§ ¦ «x ¬5  ¯ ¬¦ § »  »b  X ® ¯T ¨ «Ä± °¦ Ä º ®sT¯¦ ¨ «8  t  ª }°  ªm8  § 5 ¬b ²¦ ²Ã § B °¦ ª »x  x  «  ½ ¯g §  ° «}  ° §   lº ¨x ¬x ª «m  ½ )  ©  ¬ »§  B ¡ lªV¨ ° ¬ §t² ¯¤ B ¿ ¶b¢´ T  ¦ § ªlV¨°g §  £ }° ¡@ § ¯lV¨ °¦ §Â ª Á ¨¦ « « »§ x³ ª «¹s ¨ ±F ° ®sT¯R ¨  £ ¬B  ±¥B ¬t I ² }° « B ¦ b ª § 5 ¬m ² ² §¤®sT¯t ¨ ¯ ¬¦ § »g   5  T¯¨s¦  ªbg § G £ °F § 8 À  »|   ) I © B ¬t  ²t §G ² ¹«s ¨ ±° ¯G B ¿B ¶¦ «x ¬ b¾½   B¼ ¥} t ° ¯T ¨  T¨g § }£¦B³  ®XT¯V¨ ° ¬x I « B ´µ º £x»x  b º  ¬) ² ¹« ¨ Tj ° ±T°% ¨© ¦ ²  ª }  °  ´ V¬F ° ¦ «B ¬x s « ¡g ° «  ·¸x ¶¦ « ¬¦ § bµ ´ B ©B  ¥  ° «t §³ ²   ± ° x ¬   ¯ % © b ¬ ®% « §)  TB ¨¦ ¦ ª  ¬¦ « ¬Bxs «| ¡ ¦  lª¨s  ©T ¨| § } £x ¦G e ¥¤  |   £ ¢¡        5%   b H       I  %  %  1I  ¡     D  P   s% P 3 H  P 1 q   i£U S% p iG2 D 2 Y Wg e y d     PBg T  R I  y  s eUb S  W  F x w g s I     V U Tb S B Y eyx w v s F u Y ¡ I T t P g s 6 e I H f F r q  T i¦b S  W i£% p ¥ i h D 2 Y g W f e  d b a ¡ Y § c B P b a ` Y  X ' F  W VBU T SB3 R  P Q P I H G F E D C

} 5 W¨ ~5  u a` ~5 u b` U V~¦} c| S {85 cD W5 t r yV   x ¨ f vwu t ` r5 s5 sr x qv p n¨ b ¨ x o nxi v 53   n 8  fm   kD j  h¨ g y  f V5 X  e V D  ¨ yX wd           e    H5  G5  ¨  yx wv   z S h5 c| W t  r% 5 } WD ~5  u a` ~ ub ` U V ~} c| S ¨ {) Wb  a}hS 5 } WD ~5  u a` ~5 ub  U V ~ }c| S t {t hs r¨ q5 p Wb h za yV   x ¨ fw v u t ` r5 s5 sr x qv p yV   x ¨ fw v tu` r5 s5 sr x qv p nb¨ ¨ x ox n v 5 @   n 8  fm   kD j   h ¨ g y  n¨ b ¨ x ox ni v 5@   n l  fm   lk¨ j  i h ¨  yg f V5 X  e V D ¨  yX wd           e   H  5 G 5  ¨  yx wv f  X  e V5 ¨ ¨  yX w d@        e   H  5 G  5 ¨  yx wv W 5 D U}  S h)  r  ) Wb  a h ut 8 h rs¨ q5 p8 Wi h fge db c ab` YX W VUTSR Q P  B I $¨ § ¥HG F ' B ED §D C C B A £ @ 9 8 £7 § 6  5 43 © 2 1 ¨ $ ¥0) ( ' &  % $  "¤# " !          ¦ ©¨ §¦ ¥¤ £ ¢ ¡  

¤  3 f á¾ ë¡   åì ¾âêG â ÿ Ý ñI ü 8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ëu Þ 0 ¨b ït å ¾âê@   | å b ï Ý±j ú »át ë    åi ã G ¨  Þx âb át æ »â êm ã âmB ÝÞ ¨ ¼ 6 å ÿy é Ýe ÿR ã t á ñ ã úb¤ Ý g ü  àx ï á ã ¾âêF þ át âB ý áI þ  á ï åH8 ü á ï ßb ü å8| á j à Â Ýe ÿã á8  üt á ñÒ ã ÿ¾Ýx ë át ¥ ¤   ¬ ¡ «¦ §g  } £ ¦ DEt á ñ| ã ¹üw ê Þ¾ ê ïx ãI á É à b â Ý¾ ê ãt å ¾ß ë å¥ ¢ á þ át  ü¤ ß ¨£ ë âmI Ý | à àmB Ý7 Þ e ãX ü| Ý R à á ñ5 ã8 ç8 ïb á¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý ñ d î u ì } â y h ¤ x ´b ª § ¬B ¡ª x ¦ ªb§7ü C B à ñ »ã êm ï Ýb¾æ ë& å t á ñj ã % ¨ §    þ á ã å »ßb ë å ¢  á ¹üêÒ à ñ Íã êb ï Ým»æb ëå ¦ ñ Þm8 åá  ú Ýj ü8 ü á8 â áb£¢ ê ã Þ5 á¥   á á ñ ã)) çF ò & ä  új Ý t üm â »Ý ê ãx å ¹Þ¾êë û û å ¨ âg å 3 à } ây sx # õ @ 1 2 1  ó0 )  A# 2  ù 5x # 3 9  # ¢ 8 ùsX %    7 56õ  ùD d   ø4   3  ü8 ï á¾þëm±Ý5 ú ë¦ åx ïb á ¢  ág ü  Ý ãm¾âw ê âb¾Ý ê ã8 å Þ ý» êü  éb ü å¹B ë Þ ¾ë êg å yàB é¨ á ë¦ åx ït áx âb á æ m ï Ý±¤ ú 8 ü á¾ ë   8 à át ü8 âÂ á úb Ý ë ¹å ê ãXx â á ã Ý5| û  á ñã ¨t þ ß ãe¤ ü Ñ á  Q ¤ ïßm Ý  b ñ ¾æx êt áI â  ã8 ü á ï å áVâX é t þ â| å  ü áb6 ¨ å¼§ t ám¦ ¢b ê åd çx üx á á ï| ã b â ¾Ý ê ¾üx ê8 Þ áÃ þ  ñ ÍãG ê7 ÿ £¨ë¡    å ï ßmb Ý6 ¢ l åR ú 8 þ á ï åI û àmB Ýg Þ ¥ ¨ t á ñ ã ãt å ñã âG ÿ Ý ñ ü üb¼ å& ÿ »ãÑ ê t þ â¼ åh & m` "  ¤b ëR å B ã á¤b ü¦ åx ï á ï ï å î¾âu ê 8 þ át ü| ß  á8 ïÂ áÿ ü þ Ý ñx ã| á à æ ¾â ê ãm ü Ýs5 Ý   8 á á ïd ã ëb å8 ïb á ¢ s á ¡ ¤ x át Þ âg å  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 áw û 8 ï áã  éx ã á   8 þb á ¢ » át ê¦ ñb ÞÃ å ¾áë   8 à át ü8 âg á  á ñ ã  ãt å ñi ã t þt âb ß Ý± ú t þ â åub â ¾Ý ê ã åü é»¾ê ë¦ åx ï á8 âb á æ 8 þm á 2b Þ¦ åe ã3 ü ¨x   8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë@ Þ þ ám üt å i éXh ¨b ï| Ý x à| á Ð à þt âå üb  á ¨6å¼r t áb£ ¢ êd å v  Ñ å 8 þ á â¾ êf   b à ÝB ÞQ & ¡ # #{ "  ¤b ë& å B ã áH¹üX ê ¡   å eI ¤ æ¾ â ê8 ï áã Íéët) ý »ëb êg å Vàx éÑ á I  âe ß w ïb± Ý ú8 þ á¾»ê ët û ûi å ¨£¾ëë±ße ú ü8 üx áx Þt Þ ß üÄ8 âx á5 á   b á6 ¢ t åñ ü á¦  ñb Þ åX Ý ït û ûj å 8 ï á â ï8 å á¾yëéÍ ê ÍãëR ß ³ à 8 ï á ñb ãF Ý | á àb Ý ü ¨£ ëX ã8 âB á Þ8 á  ¤ 8  ü5 ás û© ¨G ã ãm8 â á8 ï5 á ¦êþ b à Ý ï± ú ü¦x ï át âb ï8 å ¾áë) ü á »ât ê   b àx Ý ÞH¾áëf   x à át üx â ái á ñg ã ñ¦b ÞX å Ý ït û û å¼ ï ßbÝ ¾âê¼ç`t þ âmB Ý8 Þ á 3 ¤ » á ë ß þs| Ý  à ¦ ñb Þ å á àm Ý ï±g ú 8 ï á â ï8 å ¾áë¤ ám â Ýæ»â êt üß þ áI  àb ï ±ÝúH á ïG å ü á» ëf   x à át üx â& á á ñ³ ã t þ âÃ å h ¨ b ï Ýmx æ á ãx å7 Þ t áb â ÝGb ï Ý±i ú ¾áë  é» êt üb â Ý5û ü á¤ ï ¹üR ê á¾ ë ß þ| Ý à¤¦ ñb ÞÂ å¤ è  ¤ 8 ü á¾ ë   8 à át ü8 â¤ á t þb â å¤ ü á» ë ß þs| Ý à ñ  ã Ý5 fát»â êf   b àx ÝR Þ  á5 ÿ çe ãm ü å ïX ã âbB ÝÑ Þ } â' y I ¤ æ¾ â ¾êë| û  à åj ü ¦ å ã åi þ þt âå á ï  ßB ã8 Þ á Íãê¦ ñ¦ Þ ï å8 çt ü âb¾Ý ê »ã êt þm âB Ý Þ ëb¾å ê Íãt ê »âêHãm8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê þ³t æ »â ê ütß þ8 á ãå  éx ït áx âb áw æ  á ïÉ å t þ â& å h ~  üh  b ï Ýe ÿ ãB á â¼ ë¦ å ï8 ß á â £¨ëb â lÝ| á5s û© ¨³ ã | á b à åü  á ñ ã b à Ý ï± ú¦ üx ï á â ï å »áë) áb ï å ü¦x ï5 á   8 àI á Â à »át ë   x à át ü8 â) á á ñÅ ã 8 à á ã ü( ¨ü »ïê8 á ñÑ ã â¾ ê8 ç ã ü ¾ïD ê p  ¤ ¦ ü ïb ß Ýit þ â| å i¤ ë& å B ãá  ¨ b áh   ït ås ñ  ú Ý ¦ ñb Þm å Ý ïû é û åi á ñÃ ã x âx á áe ÿB ã5 áo   8 üx át Þx â áx ï á xê³ þ »âb êg å & à  Ýe ÿ ã á ï¤ å  áx ït á¼ ñì ¤¡h ¨ ïbm Ýx æ á ãx åÞ ¦ ñb Þ å áGb ï Ý±ú â x ám ü Ýt¦ ñw Þ 5 á   6 ¨ g å 7 à 8 ï á â ï8 å á¾R ë X ã8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê þj å  á8 ï áG ñ ÿ8 ç¦ üx ï á â ï å »áë  ú Ý¤»áët   x à át ü8 â á ã8 ü5 á  t á ñ ã ã8 Þ á¾x ë áR ü  ÝÂ ã »ãêd át ü¤ ß Â áX ÿ` çt þm âB Ý8 Þ á üi á ñã ¾âêþ â% å ç¾ë ë¦ åx ïm á ¢hR Ý 8 ï á â ï8 å ¾á ë t æ »â| ê  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á| û  ã8 ü5 á§   á ñI ã  ã Þ á»8 ë áü  Ý ãiãB ái ü âb¾Ý ê ã å¹þ»êb ë å ¢  á ñ& ã  át üI ß Â á ÿ ç¦ ñ Þmm å Ý ï û û åi ïm ß ÝÂ úR Ý  á ümx åÞ  ã¦ ü ïtÃ ý  á ñ ã } â y@3 ¤ á¾ âb ê æ8 âÂ á8 ë á ü »á ê þ d å  ú Ý ¹ü êX ü Ýb âb æ å¾ ê| þ »ã ë ß ål& ú b ï Ý±ú ¾áëf   x à á ütx âÃ á âb³ å ¹þ»ët ê ß    Ý| ã 8 þ át üÂ ß ¾üê¼B ã á ü³b â ¾Ý ê ã å ¹þ»êb ë å ¢ å¤ áx ï áG ñÿ &Q¡ j # " ¤b ëg å x ãu á ¥ ¨ b áh   ï ås ñ ¨   þ á  £ êx ï Þ ü áÃ þ  ãt å ñ ã  ÝI ã  ï ¹å»ë| ê à¾ êü ç` þ Ý ñx ã| á ¨ àB ã8 Þ á¾x ë á& ü t þ âb åe ã ü á¤ ã Â å ám ü5 Ýb û Ý ï¼ ûÂ á ÿ ¾áë   8 à á üt8 â% áe ã ü á  á ñ ãÄþt âå  à ñ »ã ê ïmb Ý ¾æ ëå F ò ³ ä  ã8 ü5 áq    á ñ ã á»â| ê  àx ï áB ã á þ Ýì ¤ h ¡ ¨ b ï Ýmx æ á ãx åd Þ  ãt å ñj ã »â¼ ê üX æb â Ý¾x ë5 á   »ã ê  ã Ý âGm ï ÝGx ï á ñB ã áG ñÿ ü á¾â| 8 ê  à8 ï áB ã ái þ 8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë ÞFh ¨ ït å â¾ ê   ñ¦b Þ8 å á ç âm»Ý ê ã8 å Þ Íý ê üb ü å¹B ë Þ b ï Ý±ú þ  áX ãx â á8 ü á ï¤ û ¾üD ê »ëb êg å Vàx éá x ÿ á³ â åix ât áG ñ5 ÿ ç þb8 å áe ã ü â}y v ¤ x à á¾ ë¡    Ý ïû üm ü ¾åx ë yÞ»é ê »ã ë& ß w à á ñÃ ã áb£¢b ë Ý ü  Ý7 ã  ü8 ït á Íý ê üb ü ¹åB ë¤ Þ á ñj ã á¾âê   àmB Ýu Þ  Ýã ~ 8 2 ü á þsx Ý& Þ æ¾â êB ã8 Þ á ï ïmB Ý) Þ ïm Ý ïx ï¤ á  át ü¨ ß ¤ æ ¤3á±v | 0  ïmÂ Ý& ÿ  å ï ãXx íR á ¨âbR å Ýþ Ý|  ã b á6 ¢ åtñR ã Ý âF Ý³ þ Â áD ÿ8 çt üs ß ñD ã8 ç8 ï á¹þb ë Ý±| ú áâm Ý  ât å ñ| ã  á ïm| Ý  à »âê þ  ám ï Ý ãj ü 5 á  @ Ý7 ã ü¾¾ë êg å yàB éÃ á | á b à Ý³ ü  á »ï ê ü8 áÑ þ 6 ¨ g å & à 8 ï á ü¤ ß I å  ãt å ñã ¾á ë  £ê ü ümÝ5I û ü¾I ê yã y ¤30 ¨ ïmb Ýx æ á ã8 åÄ Þ ¦ ñ Þb åR á ïm±Ý ú ¦ üx ït á »ý ê ü üb¹åB ë Þ h ¨  ït å ¾âê  á  ã¦ å ï åt8 û á@ ü  þ át ü ß ám6 ¢ t å¤ ñ Â á³ ÿ  üX ãx â| á ¾à ê8 ï á ûx íÃ á ïb ßd Ý »ëb ë3 å } ây ¤ 8  ï á ñ ãbj Ý ñ¦m Þ8 åg á  Ýd ã  á ït å| û àmB Ýj Þ  ¨  á ñÐ ã  ÿ Ýj ñ þt âå ü ü áx â ám¦¢ ê ã8 Þ áG  á m â »Ý ê ãx å5 Þ ýÍ ê üm ü å¾x ë7 Þ b áh ¢  Ý ï| û »à ê  âx åG Þ ü á¦ ñb ÞX å Ýt ï û ûå Ý ÿeg  ã  á8 ü á ñ ã¼ÍúÃ ê t á »â| ê  àx ï áx ã á þ  Ý ã ¹ü# ê ¾à ê& å t ï¤ ß q 4  ¤ g ü à ñ ã» ê ïmb Ý æ¾ ëå òä`b úG Ý »át ë   x à át ü8 âI á âbG å á ïm»Ý ë ûx í á  Ý| ã  ñ ¾üG ê ÿ¼ á ÿ ç2 ~ 8 ü á¾ ê ïmb Ý8 æ á ã8 å lÞ| ü8 ï á þ¾m ë Ý± ú  úI Ý  ü ás û© ¨I ã ãm8 â á8 ï5 á ¦êi þ  ú| Ý x ï5 á    à ßs â g å 8 ü át âx ý á þ 8 â áã

TéúbÃ Ý x ï át üß | á  à å ü á ñ| ã übG å çb£¨ ët þ âmB Ý Þs á Q ¤ x ï á ütÉ ß x âb á £¢b êu æ j å b ï ±Ýú  át ü| ß  ÝÆ ã à ñ Íã êb ïm Ý æ»b ëÑ å  ò G ä ã8 ü5 á   á ñ¤ ã á¾â| ê  à8 ï áB ã á| þ  Ý ã ü ã| û 8 à áã é  ã& å  ãt å ñ ã ¦ ñb Þm å Ý ï ûb û å âg å  ám ï »Ýt ë ûsx í¤ á  Ýi ã  üi ß  þ »ái ë m ü åt ñ ¾ë êg å yàB éá ¾ïx ê át ñI ã ¨úÍ ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þ)¦ üx ï át üÃ ß ¦ ñ ¹ÞêG ñj ÿ â»R ê 6 ¨  å ÿH á ñÃ ã x âx á áe ÿ ãB5 á 8 üB á Þx âá éx  ï á ¦ êi þ  á ñG ãb ç £¨ ë ã¦ ü »ïD êp  ¤ 8 þ áx ãB ám Þ ålúb éÂ Ýe ÿ³ ã ¾ü ê ¦ ñm Þm å Ý ï û ûw å  ï¤ ß 4   ' % (   ö¤  %& %    # õ¨  $ # " !  ùe   ø ¤   ü8 ü á8 âb á £¢ êã é8 B Þ áG  d á  ü »ãD ê úbj Ý âm»Ý ê ãt å ¾ßë å¥ ¢ & á á ñã 8 â á ñj ã t þb âx å »ëb ê åx ã á þ  ám ïI Ý ¤ à ¾âê ñb ¦ Þ åm Ý ïûb ûd å ïm ß Ý  üt üB ß Þ ¾üê¤ þ e ã¦ üt ïx ý »ëë¾G ê7 ÿ áÑ Q ¤ x ï át ü ß b ï ¾å ëx ß ¾Þ ê ãb ï åtû å¨b ï Ý±x úg ü  à ñ »ã ê ïmb Ý ¾æëw å F ò  äb úÂ Ý ¾áë   8 à á üx â% áe ã ü áo   á ñd ã æ¾â ê ¾â| ê  à8 ï áã x é á þH8 üb á £¢ëbm Ý ¢»âê¤ þ âbB Ý Þ ág ü  á¼ ñR ì  ¤ ï8 át üH ß ï¹å ëx ß ¾Þ ê ãb ït å³ û  å m ï ±Ý& ú  á ütß Ý ãµt  à ñ »ã êm ïb Ý æ¾ ë åÄ ò I ä á¾b ë æ â¾ ê üi ã8 ü5 áf   t á ñÃ ã t æ »â ê ã Þ8¾áx ë ád ü  üb á £¢ëbm Ý% ¢ ¾ âê ñ Þbåm ¦ Ý ï û ûbH å  ã ü ï& ý  á ñ¼H ì ¤ë¾ êg å yàB éH á »ï8 ê á ñ¤ ã  ãm ï Ýw ü  Ýd ã x ï át ü& ß | á  à åü t á ñ ãH ¨   t þb â å¦ üx ï át ü ß¨m ã8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê7 þ  ¨     ñ ã5 Ý'   8 þ á ã å áx ï Þ¦ üx ï á¹þëb±Ýút úÝ ü ás û© ¨ ã%X ãx â áx ï á ¦êd þ á ñ¤ ã t æ »âm ê æt å âb| å g à  ñ ÍãG ê& ÿ 8 þ á ã ¹åB ê Þ Ý üb ü) å8 ü á ß ü ¹üê á t ñi ã  á ïm»Ý ë ûx í áÑáÑz  ¥ ¤ g ü à ñ Íã êb ïm Ý æ»b ëÆ å  ò | ä úbÐ Ý b â ¾Ý ê ãt å ¾â ê   m àB ÝÞ å á ü¾ê¾»ë ê ã¤ ß ãt å ñ ã 8 ç ü¾ë¾ êg å yàéBI á  ú3 Ý m â »Ý ê ãx å5 Þ ýÍ ê ü üm¾åx ë Þi¹Þ ê ãg å b à Ý ã ßå Ý7  ã üá¦ ñb ÞX å Ý ït û ûG åx ëm á ¢hÝâ  áX ü Ým û Ý ïû  ág ÿ x ï5 á û åt| û ¹ü ê ñ ã}ây ¤ x Q ï á ñ ã Ý  á ñÃ ã þI á  àb ï ±Ý úx ï5 á û ãb ßÝ ¨ ¦ ë ãm8 â á ã ü¾ êt üm âB Ý Þ8 ï á â ï8 å á¾) ët á âbH Ý ÝD â ãt å ñ7 ã t þ âm ß ±ÝG ú Ý ¹ü ë åh & # " ¥8 á¤ á ä þ âb¤ t å  æ å¹ ë ã ß ït¡ ¤  ám â& Ý b â ÝDx ït á âb ï8 å á¾ ë ¾á ë ß ïÂ á Íã êm ü Ý5| û àbx Ý¼ Þ át ñ ã þ âå çÂ Ýe ÿx ãx ï á ñ ã Ýâb7 å âbx Ý8 ï á â ï8 å á¾ ë ¾áë ß¤ ï ¦ þb ï Ý ÿs¥ ¨ m á`   á ñ8 ã8 ç üx ã áX ü »ëêbg å x àá á t ñ` ã úR Ý Â Ýe ÿ³ ã âbI Ý G ¨ Þm å ïx ßx Þm Þ å úÂ Ýg ü  à8 ï áÃ ã ¾â¼ êe ã ü á   á ñ| ã 8 þ| á  àb ï ±Ýú  éx ï5 á û ¦ ñ ÞbX å Ýt ï û û% åx ï át þx â áG ü á ñ ãD ãt å ñ7 ã  þ â ßb±Ýx úb ü¼ å% ÿ yãy ¤ 8 ï á â ï8 å ¾áë ¾áë ß ï  á »ã êX ü Ý| û àbx ÝÞ t þ âå 6 ~ ¦ fv ¤ #I ¤ m m â »Ý ê ã Þ ás x á á lü| ¦ ñb ÞX å Ý ï ût ûå þ 8 áb ü å1   ús¹ þ VêéT úb ã çx ït á âb ï8 å á¾d ë ¾áë ß³ ï 8 þ áb üt åo   ïx át þx â áX ü7 ç `  ) è ¡ ¢ ¡  y r   Ýã ïb¾å¾ë| ê »à ê³ ü x ït á âb ï8 å ¾á¤ ë á» ë ß ï  þm ï ÝÂs ÿ¥ ¨ ám 8 ç8 üm á6 ¨ å¼@ t b á £¢ êd å   ¦ üx ï á ütß ãx X â áx ï á ¦ ê þ ámI ¢  ýb ú Ý å ã å þs»ëb ê| å yàB éR á b â` Ý ü á¦ ñb Þ åX Ýt ï û ûH å  æ »âG ê  ÿ ¾Ý¾ëb ë ±Ýú t á ñÅ ã 8 þ á ït å| û m àB ÝÐ Þ  Ý ñG| ÿ h & " 6 ¨  å  ©  þ âå  ñ ã8 å áÂ ï îF Þ I ä ` ç¦ þb ï ±Ýú é ¼ ÿ¦ å ïÂ î ú Ý¦ ü Íãt ë ß ü á ï¤ á ñR ã  ¨    8 þ á ãm ï Ý ût û ßÂ ü ü¾Â ê ¾üêt¼ ñD ì ¤ ü ï8 á üt ß ¾ë ëå ïm±Ý¸ ú à ñ ã» êm ïb Ý æ¾ ë7 å  ã8 ü5 á   t áb â| Ý  á  v Ý ã ¦¨8 ëb á £»ê ë âti ß ¾üI ê  á8 ï á ñi ã B ãb Þ låú ây  } ¤ ¾ üÉ ê b â Ý¾ ê ãx å Þ »ý ê üm ü ¾åx ë Þ»ëêb| å 8 àÃ á ïb±Ýú  à ñ »ã êm ïb Ý ¾æ ëå F ò ³ ä  ã8 ü á5  t á ñ% ã ã åG ñ ÿ æ»ât ê â»| ê  àx ï á ãx á) þ ïm±Ýú x à ¾áë¡    Ý ï ûi å ü áX ü Ý& û © ¨Í ã ê ü8 ïb á £¢êþ ¹ü ê ñ¼ì ¥ ¤  üb â Ý¾ ê ã Þm3 å  ÝÄ ã æ»â ê þm ï ÝBx Þm Þ¤ å  ü8 ï á ñ ãbÐ Ý þ â å ç¹Þêb û ÝÉ ã  Ýã æ¾â ê þ ïmB Ý8 Þb Þd å  ü »á êb ïm Ýx æ á ãx åI Þ | á b à Ý& ü  á ã8 å áB ïÞ  Ý ã 8 ï á ü& ß | á  à åI ü t á ñã ï Ý±É m ú b â| Ý | à àbB Ý Þ âÃ ß  ã Ý âu Ý ü¾b ëÃ å ü¹³ ê yã8 y ¡ ¤ Þ¾ êm û Ý| ã m ïÃ Ý x ï á þx â á ü  Ýã æ â¾  ê þm ïB Ý8 Þb Þ¤ å x á ð¾ êm ïb Ý8 æ á ã8 åÃ Þ ¦ üx ï á ñ ã Ýd¦ § Í ã@ ê  ñ ÍãêGd ÿ ë8 å á þ  ÝÉ ã 8 þ8 á áâ ¨ á ¥ ñã x â áG ñF ÿ m ï# Ý  ÿt Ý@ ñ  ÝÉ ã  æ â¾ ê þm ïB Ý8 Þ Þb& å ë¾ êg å x ài á »ï8 ê á ñu ã 8 á »ð êï éb b Ýx æ á ã8 å ÞÃ ü8 ï á üF ß | á b à Ý ü çb¾á ë| û à å íBÃ á ïm Ý p ¤ ü8 ï á ü@ ß x âx á áe ÿB ã á5  ¨£ ë ã å8 á ïbw æ 0 ¨b ï å@ ¢  â8 å Þ ü8¾á ê ïmb Ý8 æ á ã8 åR Þ  á8 ü á ñ% ã úR Ý  ás û© ¨R ã  á ñt ã8 ç8 ï ábh ¢ Ý é x á ïm¤ Ý ä  ¤ 8 ü á¾ êb ïb Ý8 æ á ãx åÞ G â ÿÝi¾ïx êt á ñã t üm û »Ý8 ë áb ¢  ái þ 8 ï át üß ¦ ñ Þm8 åá þ b å á ãt ü â¾ ê¨ § 8 ü á¾ êm ïb Ý8 æ á ã8 å Þ 8 þ á âB ý á} þB é á ïÃ û  á ßXU} ê âG ß  úi Ý 2  b Þ ¹å¤ ë & å ¹üê áx  ï á ñ ãb ç ¨£ ë ã ü ¾ïD ê p ¥ ¤ ¦ üx ï át ü ß ü üm ÝB ï Þmi å m â Ý» ê ã8 å Þ Íý ê ü üb¹åB ë Þ ú¤ Ý © ¨Í ã ê ü8 ïb á £¢êþ t á ñ` ã ü¹G ê¦ å ã åþb¾ë êg å yàB é áúb Ý Þ¹ ê ã ¹ü ê8 ï á ãm Þ å ïbt å¦ ñ ÞX ã â¦ å ãm ï Ý| û ¾à7 ê â  ¤ 3 B  s Ý Ý» ë ã ß¤4 Tã ú Ý üm ÝB ï Þ¹¤ ê ¤ ä »âj ê 8 þ á üt ß  ã å ñã Ý|  ã  ï ¹å»ë| ê ¾à êÃ ü ï8 á ã»t ëu ý 8 þ áb ü å i és¦ þb ï Ý ÿs¥ ¨ m á 3 å  ñ ÍãG ê ÿu£¨ ë   ¦ å ïm ßb Ý6 ¢ l åú ü  áb ït å| û b àB Ý Þ  üb á6 ¨ ¼ å t áb£¢ ê å¤A  ãt å ñµ ã 8 þ á ãb ï Ý5x û á ï ¥ & x f " i ¤ ë åB ãá ü »Ý X ë ßm Ým û Ý¦ ü ãb ß Ý ït þâ  t þ â å `  Â è£ ¡ ¢ ¡  y   g ü  àb ï ±Ý úx ï5 á û ãm ßÂ Ý üb á6 ¨ ¼ åt á ¢¦b m êd å  ãt å ñ ãÈt þ âb ß ±ÝúÑ6 & ¦ ¥ fx"  ãm üb Ý ¢h Ý ï¤ ¡  ç æ¾â ê8 ï á »ãt ëF ý ¾ë êg å yàB éá  âe v ß w úb Ý »âêbg å b à Ýþ  á ñ ãÄ}ây i¤Q & 6 j x f" V çQ & 6 # x f" V ç &h 7 #" ¾ â ê 8 þ á ütß áx  ï áÿ  ü áX ß }£t ê â¦ ñ8 Þ áã  ïm ß Ý  ñb¾æx êt á Vâ ée ã ü áb ï8 å á ¤ b & ¦ f" þ âå &h g #" V çb & v f #" y ç &  7 x f" ¾â ê þ8 á ü¹»ê¾ë ê ã ß  á8 ïÂ áÃ ÿ h ~ ¦ üB ã áÉ â  â ¹å ê üb á6 ¨ ¼ åt á ¢£ b ê ü ü á ïûx íá  áb ï| Ý à t þb âå  ü áb6 ¨ ¼ åt b á ¢£ êd å |  ü á¦ ñb ÞX å Ý ï ût ûå â ¹å  ê üáb6 ¨ ¼ å t  ¤ 8 ü á¾ ë ß³ ï  æ â» ê ãb ã Ý û yü é þm ïÂ Ý ÿs¥ ¨ m á@   þ »á¾ëë8 åj Þ  Ý| ü x á Þt ßt þ ¾âê Ýã `   èÂ£ ¡ ¢ ¡  y   à ñ Íã ê ïbm Ý »æb ë åÄæ¾âê â ïb8 å ¾á¤ ë b ët å âb¾Ý ê »ã êm ü5 Ýb û Ý ï ûit á ñã ü á üD ß &h7 " 8 â áb ñ ÝÂH î  ¤ 8 þ5 áb û Ý¾x ëb á ¢ ái þ 8 â áx5 á'   b á6 ¢ t å¤ ñ m â »Ý ê ã8 å ÞÍý ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ ë¾ êg å yàB é¤ á ¹Þ ê ãg å b à Ý ãßj å ïm±ÝÃ ú g ü 8 à á ã üs0 ¨ üdb ë å8 ïb á¥ ¢  áw ü »ã ë ß8 ü á ï w å ü 

¤  b ~ âm» Ý ê ã8 å Þ Íý ê ü üb¹åB ë Þ ¾ë êg å Vàx éD á úb¼ Ý8 ü ¾á ê þt ße ãü á ñ¤ ã »ëëbÅ å â¾@ ê âb| Ý | à àbx ÝÞ 8 à »át ë¡    Ý ï ûå| 8 á »ð ê üH¾ë ëg å  àÉ ü £¨x ë ám¦¢ ê ãå Íé8 ë áI ï  ü »ãw ê  á »ã ê û ü á þ çm â »Ý ê ãx å5 Þ Íý ê ü üm¾åx ë¤ Þ  úR Ý 8 ü á¾s ë© ¨e ãg ü X ãx â áx ï á xê¤ þ  úÝ x ï á5  à ßs â & å  úF Ý ám¦¢ ê ã åX ã8 â á ü á ï8 û áw ï ¹ü ê å¦b ï5 Ý û ïmB Ýu Þ á ñd ã x çt ü ßs¼ ñì ¤ ¦  ÞB ã³ á 8 ûx ái á © þ â  ¦¨t ëx ûG á  çb á ãB¾áx ë¤ á I Û æ ¤¡A á 8 à á ñ³ ã b âg Ý þ| á  à ïm±Ý ú8 ï áû ütâb¾Ý êB ãb ÞÄ å á ñ3 ã  ¨    ¦ ¨8 ë »áëm ÝF ü ¹üë¾ êg å Vàx é á t æ »â8 ê »ð êb ï Ýmx æ á ãx å7 Þ  ç ¾â êX å æå m ã8 â á8 ï á5¦ ê þ¤m ü å ÿ # 8 ï á¤ ü f e  ¤ âm Ý ûÅ ß 8 þ á ãm Þ åÄ á   ÝÅ ã 8 þ á þx á áâ ¨ t ¥ á ñi ã x â áG ñÿ  Ý³ ã æ¾â ê þ ïmB Ý8 Þb Þi å 8 ü ám æ å ü üI á F à þ8x á ð¾ êb ï Ýb8 æ á ãx åÞ  Ý ¹ü ëå 7 x ï á ütI ß »áë¾ êG ñ¤ ÿ âb¾Ý ê ãg å  àm ï Ý± ú »âêHx ï át þx â áF ü t þ âb& å ¹Þ ê ûb Ý ã% ú Ý¹ü êb üt å  á ñ¤ ã âm¤ Ý ¦¨ ëe ãX ü| Ý d à ¹ü»ëêbg å Vàx éj á  þx á ¾ð êm ï Ýb8 æ á ã8 åI Þ  f x ï át ü ß çbx át Þ â¦ åe ã ü »âê b ï Ý p ¤y8 þ ám æb â Ý¾x ë5 á   ¹ ü »ëêb| å yàB éd á »ï8 ê á ñ ãG8 ï á ¹þb ë Ý±G ú ã åG ñ¤ ÿ »â ê á¾â| ê  à8 ï áã B é áF þ  Ý³ ã ¹å êx ï á »ã êB ï& Þ X ãx â áx ï á x êÑ þ þ á ü ß  ü8 ï á üg ß á ñ ã úÑ Ý ¦ ñb ÞÂ åè  ¤ âm» Ý ê ãg å  à ïb±Ý ú â¾i ê b á ¢£ ê »ã êt ü8 â áj ü ¦¨ ë ñm»æt ê³ ñ  þ á»âb ê åX ã âbx Ýd Þ ãÍ8 ë á±Ã ú  ¨  á ñã üb áb æ å ü8 ü| á x à ¾ë êg å yàB é á¤b ï Ý¦ üx ï á¾þëmÝ±³ ú  ¨  âå 2  b Þ å   ã8 û áb ¦ üX ã â åt¾ûB ê ¹Þ êã é  ï å ûHát¼ ñ¨ ì ¤ ¦ üx ï át ü ß ãX8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê þ b áI ¢ ý m à Ý ±ïú)8 üm á æ å ü ü| á 5 à ë¾ êg å yàB éá ú ÝÃt  ü ß ûb ïB Ý Þ@ å þ áB ã8 Þ á¾»ëm ëB Ý ÞHh &  " ¤b ëj å B ãÄ á  þ ïm±Ýú¼ ÿ åÂ ï î v f 3 g  g 8 # } ây õe ó0 ) W ö ùD    ø4   231  ¦ öd c x ÷#3  b a )  ö % ö 7  X1 W %6 ø` #§ ` 4s  õ# Y St ù # % E ¤¡h ¨ ïbm Ýx æ á ãx åÞ ¦ ñb Þ å áGb ï Ý±ú ï8 á â ï8 å ¾á| ë e ã ü át   á ñ¤ ã t æ »âê¾â ê¦ åX ã âbB Ýw Þ »át ë   x à át ü8 â á âå b à Ý ±ïúFt æ »âê  é ã ïb å ãüXx ç¦ ñ Þbm å Ý ï ûb ûI å t æ »â êf   » à ê¾B ë Þ ¾ëë¾ ê& ñ w å 8 þ át ü ßHi á  ¤ ütb â ¾Ý ê ã»ßëm Ýü ãeü áq   á ñ ãw á ãg å ¾à ê í Ý ït û û å  Ý ã ¦ ñ¦ Þ ï8 å á@ ü ß   ¦ å| ã b ï Ý æ â¾ êf   » à ¾êB ëÞ ë»¾ë êd ñ üb å ¦ ñt Þ ß` üb ç áX ß U} ê â¦ ñ Þ áã ¦ ñ¦ Þ ï8 å á¨ ü ëx å Þ ¾Ýë  þb ï åt þ âb å ã³ ü R å  át üß m þ å8 á ãütâ¾ ê  â8 å) Þ ái1  ¡ ¤  át üG ß Ý ãH þ Ý ñB ã| á % à ¹Þ ê ã ¾üê¾ ë å át ï âi ß  â å üI á m àB ÝÞ é5 B á{   ãÍ ê ü ÿ Ý ïmD æ ü8 ï á þ¾m ë Ý±t úb ú Ý%x ï5 á    à ßs¼ â á ñD ãm ü åb§ © ¨Í ã êx í »áë| û m àB Ý| Þ »âê  ë å¹ êX ãx â á âm Ý ûx í á¼¾üÃ ê ¦ ñ Þmm å Ý ï ûb û å¾üt ê ñ ãm8 ç8 ïb á¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý s3 ¤ B á Þ¦b ï Ý±H ú  á ã ß ï  ætâ» ê üt| ß b â Ý¾ êB ãt Þ â±ß ú áb£¢ êB ã8 Þe á w  3G Ý á ñD ã ü á ¹ü| ê »à ê íg å  à ãt å ñ ã ¾áë   8 à áü éx âÃ á át ñ ãit þt â ý ¨¦¾ë êm ü8 åÑ á  â8 åÃ Þ Â á ÿx ç¦ üx ï á ¹þb ë Ý± ú ãX8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê þG ú7 Ý 8 ï á  éRàtX ß âHb á æ ï ¹åI ë  å áb6 ¢ t åG ñ ãt ÝI â  Ý| þ t ÝG ñ ÿ¼ ü8 ï át ü ßGm ï Ýp ¤¡¾áëf   x à á ütx âá á ñ ãm ï Ý±I ú  á ï ßb ü å| á Vàx é f p8 þm á æ¦ åx ïb á6 ¢ åF ÝB ï ¹Þ| ê Ã à á ñd ã u é âb¾Ý êB ãt Þ âß±ú ám¦¢ ê ã Þ áe w ¡   G Ý ïßm Ý  á ¹ü| ê »à ê í| å  à »ëë¾G ê ÿ  ã å ñg ã h ¨ b ï Ýmx æ á ãx å Þ ñ¦b Þ å áb ï Ý±ú  à ñ »ã êm ï Ýb¾æ ëÆ å F ò äu á ñw ã  ã Þ »á8 ë áÉ ü  Ý³ ã X ã âb åÑ ÿ Â ái ÿ  á8 ï áG ñd ÿ ç 8 à »áë é¡    Ý ï û7b â ¾Ý ê ã å ¹ü| ê »à ê ã ûb& Ý  â¨ å ¾üR ê  ñ »ãG ê ÿ 8 þx áb Þ lå% ú á ï åÂ á¨ ÿ ã å@ ñ  ¤  b «  TV¨ °X § V® R ¯ B  ¢« B §& ¥ ¨ âg å à ætâ» ê ãB ã ám% æ ú7 Ý  át üx â5 á ûB íR á á ñ ã ãI å B «  TV¨T° ¨ «t ¼ ²t  ¡ V¬A ° x ÿ á±I ú å £¨ ë âbÝ þ âb ß Ý±¨ ú ã å ñ ã  à ñ »ã êb ïb Ý æ¾ ë| å  âI å  ât å ñ ã »á ëf   x à át üx â¼ á á ñd ã  Ý) ã áb ï| Ý à þm þ å ë¾x ë á& ÿ 6 ¨ g å ) à »ãd ê B «  TV¨T° ¨ «t ) ²B  ¢«   §B ¥ x ÿ á±R ú t þ âb¨ åh ~ ü üb¹åB ë ÞHá ñ5 ã úÝ ü ¾á 8 ë| û  à åB í áb á ¢£ ê »ã êX ü Ý û x ÿ ±áú¤ æ â¾x ê5 áo    áx ït á ñ ã¤ Ý ã á ß þ| B «  TV¨ °X § y®5 ¯ x  «  B §Æ ¥ x ÿ ±áúuh ¨x ï ám! ¢ b þ å| ñ 8 üb á £¢ ê »ã ê üm5 Ýj û  á ß ïÑ ã Ý â t þ âm ß Ý±Ä ú ¦ ñ Þ¹ êG ñÿ à ñ »ã êm ï Ýb¾æ ëF å âb) å yúy b ¤  «  TV¨T°¦ ¨ «  ²t  ¡ V¬F °  Ý¤ â  þ â ßb±Ýú  à ñ »ã ê ïmÝb¾æ ëå á ñF ã  ã åt ñÐ ã ¦¨t ëI û à¾¤ ê  ü á»ßb ë åi¢x éf p  Ýx ï5 áV U ¡ ¤ B á ¹Þb êt Ý ñ¦i Þ e ã ü á   á ñã ár    ã Ý âu6 ¨ g å I à ¾üt ê ñ¨ ã çx ïb á ¢ Â á ÿd Ý sr¡ ¤ á¾ ß ë å ¢B éo f § p ám¦ ¢ ê Íã êm ü5 Ý ûw á ñã ñ ÍãG  êÿ t à ñ »ã êm ïb Ý æ¾ ëA å F ò  ä á ñã  ã8 Þ á¾x ë á ü ¾þëm ßÂ Ýu ÿ ái ÿ b ç ¾áë   8 à áü éx â áRá ñd ã b ï Ý±Ò ú t à ñ »ã ê ïmb Ý æ¾ ë åH ã8 ü5 á   t á ñg ã æ¾â êB ã8 Þ ¾áx ë á7 ü  á8 ïÂ á& ÿ Â á ÿyúy ¤ 8  ï á¾þëmÝ±¨ ú ¹ü ê ñI ã b â Ýiy g  ú Ý á ï ßm ü8 å| á yàB éo f ' p R å  þb á ¢ á» ê¦ ñ Þm% åg ü  à ñ »ã êm ï Ýbæ ÍéëbF å òFd ä  á ñ ã ú Ý á âmÂ Ý ãt ßv   » ë ëb å ãt å ñR ã t þb âd å »át ë   x à át ü8 â ád á ñ ã%b ï Ý±ú à ñ »ã ê ïmb Ý æ¾ ë å òFG ä á ñ ã¤t æ â» ê ã8 Þ á¾x ë á¼ ü áb ï å á ÿ% ãt å ñÂ ã ám ü5 Ý û û ß ¤3» át ë   x à át ü8 âj á âbå â¾ ê ü8 ï á â ï8 å á¾ ë  ã8 ü5 á'    á ñã ætâ» ê  fb àx Ýu Þ âbt å ñ ã X ãb â å ãb ï5 ÝI û à¾| ê  á ïm| Ý g à  á  X ãb ñ æ¾| ê  à ü¦x ï5 á   x à| á à ¾áëf   x à á ütx âj á æb â| Ý  àå © ¨» ã ê¦ üx ï ám¦¢ ê þ  ã å ñd ã  ü ÿ Ý ñI ü »át ëI û b à åB í³ á t æ »âê é ¼ ÿ ¾Ýë¾b ë Ý±| ú  á ñ¼³ ì ¤Q & j3# "  ü ïm Ý ïx ï7 á ãXx â á¾þx êt Þ »âm êB ÝÞ x ÿ ±ái ú þtb â å t ü â8 ï áã é ã å û m â »Ý ê ã å ü¾¾ê ë¦ åx ï á â8b á³ æ X ã8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ êF þ b á6 ¢  å ñ  ¨ á ñ ã 8 â á ñGÿ ¡ ¤ á ¤ê ç¦ x üm ã8 â áb â Ý5| û b àx Ýd Þ »ï8 ê á ñG ã ãm üt æb â| Ý  à³ å © ¨» ã ê ü8 ï áb£¢ ê7 þ | á b à Ýd ü ¹ü ê  á8 ï á ñã â 8 áG ñG ÿ ãe ü ár   h  b ï Ý ÿt üb â Ý¾ ê ãt å »ât ê   àbx Ý ÞHá¾ ëf   x à át ü â% è ¤¡¾áëf   x à á ütx âá ãe ü ár   á ñ ãu á'   ¾ ë ë¾G ê¤ ÿ ¾üt ê ñ¤ ã  ã å ñF ã 8 á áX ã â¦ å ï åb ß@ æ Ýâ ü¹u ê  á8 ï á ñã b ç ¾á ë   8 à áüt8 â7 á  â7 å ¾âê x àt á ñ ã% á ¾âêf   b àB Ý Þ  þ â å ü¦x ït á »ý ê ü üm¾åx ëH Þ h ¨  ït å ¾âê 
   ¬¦ ¡ «¦ §|  } £) ¦D  á ñR ã æt»â êt üg ß h ¨ b ïb Ý æ8 á ãx åÞ át ñG ãm ï Ý±³ ú  þ á¾âê   àmB Ý Þ  áb ï åx¾ëëx å Þ áw ï t þb âw å m â »Ý ê ¹üB ê8 Þ á ï û% ú Ý 8 ü á ¾ßë å¢

á t ñ ã¼ úÃ Ý t á »ßëb å ¢B é fo§ p  á ñ¼ ã ú& Ý ¾ü êb ü åx    á ñ ãub âF Ý h ¨ b ïm Ýx æ á ãx å Þ¦ ñ Þm8 åá ïm±Ýúix ï á â ï å »áI ë e ã ü át    á ñ& ã  ã8 Þ á¾x ë áu ü ¦¨ ë| û ¾à êj ü Â áG ÿ yúv y ¡ ¤  á ¾ß ë å ¢B éo f p þb á æ¦ åx ïm á6 ¢ y åb é Ýx ï Þ¾| ê | à e ã ü át    á ñ ã 8 üb á ¢ » át ê¦ ñb Þj å ¾áb ë ÝtG ñ¤ ÿ & å m ü å8 þ á ãå é ß»b  ë å ¢ ¤ á x â á ñGH ÿ ãt å ñi ã »át ë   x à át ü8 â& á  á ñ ãi áX üX Ýt Ý¦ ñ³ Þ  ÝG ã X ã â¼ å& ÿ áÑ )  # 9   T S #  õ 1 #'  56õ Æ ù  S  ö R 0  ¤ 8 þb á ¢£b ëm Ý ¢»âi ê  á ïb| Ý ¼ à ü¾s ê çx ï ám¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý ñb ç ¾á ë   8 à á üx âá ã8  ü5 á  `t á ñ ã¤ æ »â ê ã Þ »á8 ës á 5Q ¤ B ã á& ü âb¾Ý ê ã å þ¾¾ê ë åo ¢  á ñ ãb ú Ýx¹üêb üt åo   á ñ7 ã âbÝ á B Þ âg å  àm ï Ý± ú8 ï á¼ û ã8 ü5 á   á ñG ã áb£¢b ê æ ¾ëë»G êg ÿ I  » â ê ñ ã  áÂ ÿ ã åt ñã  à ñ Íã êï éb b Ý æ¾ ëG å á ñ ã8 ç8 ï át ü¼ ß á ñ¨ ãb ï Ý±¨ ú ã Þ »á8 ë áI ü â8 å¼ Þ á ÿ8 ç| ü t à ñ »ã ê ïmb Ý ¾æ ë å òFä ãx X â áx ï á ¦ê þ ú ÝÂx ã á ü x åb ú| Ý ¦ ñb Þ8 åI á  ¨ r   8 þx át Þ ß þ Ýt ï¨ û ü8 ï átÍý ê üb ü ¹åB ë¤ Þ t á ñã â Ý¼ b á ï ßb ü8 å| á yà ép 8 þ ám æ¦ åx ïb á6 ¢  å  Ý ïB¹Þ| ê à á ñ ãH æ ¾â ê ãt å ¾ß ë å¥ ¢ R á ¨t ¥ ¤  ü á ï ß üb å| á à`»ëëbx å8 Þ áï þtb âw å m â Ý» ê ¾üx ê8 Þ á ïg û h ¨ ïg å | à à ß7 ü t á ñi ã  á ãß| û b àB Ýg Þ  Ý³ ã  þ á ü¼ ß ¾ü ê ¾áë  é  å| ã ¹üê ñ ã 8 â á ñ¼3 ì  ¤ 8 ü á¾ ë  ¦ å ãu0 ¨m ïb Ýx æ á ã8 å yÞ éx ï5 á¤ û  á ñÉ ã ¾â| ê 8 ü ¾á ê ï ãXx âá ëbt å ß þ¹s ê ¦¢ ê þ »âR ê á ñ¤ ã t ûÃ ß æ¾âê þb þ å ¨v   8 þ| á  àb ï ±Ýd ú ¾ü7 ê ¾á ë¡    åj ã G ¨ t Þ8 â ábæ é»â êm ã âmB Ýg Þ 6 ¨ å¼V ÿb éÂ Ýe ÿg ã h ¨  ïg å | à  à ßü  y ¤ 8 þ át üÃ ß £¨¾ë ëx å ¹Þ ês û© ¨ ã ¹üêx6 &  m #" ® T¯¨bx X ® §x ¬   § ¦ B ¬ lªI ¨  £8 ç8 ü ¾á êb ï Ýb8 æ á ãx å| Þ »á ë û¾ ê »ã ëR ß d à x ïm áh ¢ d Ý 8 ït á Íý ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ ¨  h ï å »â ê   å úb) ÝB á Þ âg å  à ïm±Ý ú8 ï á û%m á æ¦ åx ïm á6 ¢  å á ñ ã á ï ßb ü8 å| á H à x Ýì ¤ x Q ï5 á ût åG û ü¹ ê ñ³ ã ¾â ê  á üH ß  á ÿ  ã å ñã ¹Þ ê ïB ã| á à¹üê ñ ã ü¾d ê »ãw ê t þ â& å   ¬ ¡ «¦ §g  } £ ¦ PQD á ñ ãb üÃ å  Ý³ ã 8 þ á ïx ï ±áB ú áï ê ¹Þ ê ïB ã| á ³ à t á ñ| ã  áb üx åw Þ á ñ7 ã ü¾R ê ¹ü ê ñu ã â8 á@ ñ v  ¤u jv ¤  g  ãR å B ã á& ü ¹üê Cü¹g át x Þx ât áj ñ  þ âg å  æ â¾ êX ãb ñ æ¾x ê á ÿ` ët åX ßQ } j á b â³ å 8 þt á âb¾æ ê üb ü³ å £¨¾ë ëg å  àm ï Ýâ  á ï å| ü  àx ï á ãd á8 üt á ñÄ ã îd³ ì }â5 y v ¤  å ü8 ïb á¢ B á ¹ÞêX¢ b ï Ý5»ëb ëx å Þ á ïb úd Ý á¾ß ë å¢ þ Ýsb  Ýi æ Ã å â å ñ% ãX ã â¦ å ãm ï Ý| û ¾àêG ám ïI Ý d à  áf   6 ¨ | å I à b â ¾Ý ê ¾üx ê Þ8 á ïg û b ñ ¾æêñ åt â Ý¾ b ê ãx å Þ¹»êt ë û û åHI á m à Ýw ü }â1 y  ¤ æ¾ â êX ã ñb¾æx ê á¼ ÿ »ï8 ê á ñÂ ã8 üt á »â| ê  àx ï áx ã áþ Cü þ â å ¾ë ë åx Þ á³ ï b ï Ý±µ ú o  x ç âb¾Ý ê ü¹B ê Þ á ï³ û b ï Ý±| ú  ü þ â å ãü ¡  á8 ï áG ñ ÿ

D I ~ C GH(f|  E D F C BA f

A8 þ át üß á  ï å  T  ¦ §¦ ª ³ ¬  þ â³ å  ¯ l¦ ¨ ¹«x ¨¦ ª  ¬5x ² ü á ï ßb ü å| á àG á ñ ã8 ç üm ü ¾åx ëi Þ å¨X ã â ï8 å ¾áë ¨£¾ ë ë8 å áD ï übt å¨ ñ8 ït á Íý ê üb ü å¹B ëu Þ îdìH å »ë8 ëÂ á ÿÄ ÿ Ýt ñ ú¼ Ý á ï ßB ã ¾Þêt û8 ï áb ï8 å ¾áB ëÞ åx  ãb á æ Ý ãb çB á Þx â á5 s  ¤ » ã ë ß8 ü á ï) á ñ ã8 ü á ãt å ¾â| ê b à Ýþ  àx ï á& ã ¯d °  á ñ ãb üå ç8 ü üm¾åx ëI Þ t á ñ% ã ú& Ý »áë| û àb åx í& á m á ¦¢ ê ãÍ êm ü5 Ýg û j å t æ »â ê ã8 Þ áB ã áH þ x ï ám¥ ¢ ¤ á ãb ßÝ é  ñ »ãêG ÿb ç á ß¾ ë år ¢ G ¨ Þm åt ï ßBx Þm Þ¤ å b ñ æ¾ êg ñ 0 ¨8 ïb á ¢ i å b á ¢6t å| ñ  Ý ã8 ï átÍý ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ å ïb±ÝR i ú á»t ë  ¦ ê ü üX ÝH û t üs ß ñ ã¹ü ê yãy  ¤ 8 ü ¾áë| û  à åx í7 á b á £¢ ê ãm åx æt á) â úi Ý x ï á5  I é às ß â¼b á æ ï¹å7 ë h ¨ x ïm á¢ I å  þ â å ü »áë| û b à åx íG áb á £¢ ê »ã êX ü Ý û ú) Ýx ï5 á   às ßâ ë¾ ëg å  à üg å übt å ñ ¨¦¾ë ë8 å ¾Þt ê ûX© ¨I ã  üb ü å¹B ë@ Þ ¦ ñm Þ8 å á ç ïxm á¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý) ñ¤ ç d î @ ì } ây

át ñ ã8 ç ü8 ü á â8b á £¢ ê ã Þ5 á¥  G á úg Ý  á ï ßm ü8 å| á à¨»ëëb å8 ïb á ¢hu Ý  â å ¾â ê¦ å ã¡   ¤ Ý Ýì ) " & '  $    8©7 ¡7 0   @89 (&'$     " #653#4¤32¡1 0

"' ) & $ ( ' & §  #"%  $   #"!  §¡ © ¦¡¡ ©

¦£¡¥b à Ý ï±G ú ãÝA â   ¤ £¢ ¡ b à Ý ±ïÆ ú  

 ü  ÿ ¾Ý»ëm ë Ý± úb ü å þ8t át âB ý áG þ ¹üÃ ê ¥ ¨ b Þ¦ å ïB ß8 ÞÞ  ~ 8 2 ü áb£¢ ê ã åm8 æ áÂ â á ü¹ ë ålVú é ±â úx ç ü áb£¢ ê ã» êX ü Ý û á ü¾b ë låú é û± ú8 ç8 üm á ¦¢ ê ãX åx æ á â á ß ïã é â ã8 ç ü8ám¦¢ ê ãÍ êm ü5 Ý7 û  á ß ï Vã é û ãTx | ¾ á ë   D åj ì ¥ ¨ t Þx âm á æ¾â êX ãb âÂ ÝG î e f ¾ á ë   åDì £¨ âã â±ú ¡ Ýg ã  þ áb â ¾æ ê üm üd å  ã ÝA â   £§ û±ú ûã  ¡ ÝÃ ã  þ áb â ¾æ ê üb üÒ å   ¾ü¾ë êg å yà% éè

ë» êX ã âg ß x ï át»ý ê ü üm¾åx ë Þ @ å ¾þë¾ ê ße   b ã Ýg â 8 üs á Ý þ t þb âÃ å 8 ü á¾ ë| û  à åü t æ â»ê¾â ê¦ å ïã t á ñG ã ¾ë ëg å  ü ám ï Ý ãj ü ãÍÃ ê b üÃ å x ït á âb ï8 å ¾áë¥ ¨ ðb¾ å ëuÃ å ¹üê ãy y § ¤ àt ñ »ã êm ï Ýb¾æ ë@ å F ò Ñ ä 8 þ á übt å   0 ¨ ïmI Ý 8 à| á i à þ á ü ß ¨£ ëb â| Ý à éRm àB ÝÂ Þ ãüm| Ý  à t á ñ ã%¹ü% ê~  '  © | ïßm Ý  b ñ ¾æx êd á {  e ã ü á ïb8 å á  éH© ` T ¬  ¡¦  º  Í®B ¨R  b ¡  ° «  ¬¦ §&  ¡¦ a ¤ ¹ ¥ üx ë á âx ïm á  ¹Þ ê ã å ï þbt åX ß} þtb âd å  ï å á¾â»êë¤ ñ ã5 Ý@    ñ »ãG êx ÿ6 & ¦  fxf " F ü ¤ ä S8 b ï Ý±A ú t à ñ »ã êm ïb Ý æ¾ ëå 4   ä á ñw ã  ú Ýw6 & ¥ #" b â Ý¾ ê ã¦ åX ãx â| á x à á¾ ë| û »àê  å  ái t á ñã þ á üt ß b á6 ¢  å ñ Ñ á  ¤6 & Q g fx "  ü8 ï áx ãI á b à åb ït å û b úÆ Ý t æ â» êt â ßã ¹Þ ê ãg å b à Ý ã ß å »ï8 ê á ñã  þ âå 8 ü á ï ß ã8 å ±áú  ët åm â »Ý êt üx â| á à¾ êþ ñmæ» êR ñ á» ë þt ât å³ ñ  Ýj ã © ¨Í ã ê¾»ët ê   å¤¾ ïx êt á ñd ã ü¾Ð ê d î ì¤m ï Ý± ú ¾á ë   ¦ å ãÍ ê ßü ¨¦ ë ï ¹å ëB ß ¹Þ ê ã ï åû 8 à á ñ ã üb á¡  | å µ à ãt å@ ñ  i¤&h¥ " d î ì æâ»êþt»ßx ë Þtâ¾Ä ê 8 ç| ü 8 à »át ë¡    Ý ïû âm»Ý ê ãx å5 Þ Íý ê ü üm¾åx ëÞ  ¨  âg å à b âÝ át x Þ âg å  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á û âm»Ý ê ã å ¾üê¾ ë¦ åx ï á8 âb áÉ æ  þ Ýsb Ý æ G â ÿ Ý ñ ü ám6 ¢ t åñ ü ä¤' F S 3 ¤ áX ß }£ êt â¦ ñ8 Þ áã b â Ý¾ ê ã å ¹üI ê ¾à ê ãb ûÝ b âÅ å æ¾âês¦¨ët û ûå þtâb å  å ãt å þ t æ »âê¾â ê¦ å ïu ã t á ñÑ ã á ñÉ ã  æ â¾ êt üß 8 ü á üm ü å¾x ëÉ Þ  Ýe ÿã â áx 8 á ÿeB ã5 á   á âb¾åë ûx ï5 ás û ¨ñ »âm ê æb ïg å à  à& ß ¾à ê íg å µ à t á ñã þt âÑ ý ¥ ¨  á ñ¼Ñ ì ¡ ¤  á ßXU} ê â¦ ñ8 Þ á ã F ò  ä þ á ûm»Ý8 ëb á ¢  áÑ þ ¨£ ëX ã8 âB á8 Þ áï å  F á ïi å h &  # " h ~ F ü äHS8 | 8 ü á¾âê¦ ñb Þ å j ä b ï Ý ã Þ% á SY ã ïm Ý ût ûs ß U T «B5  ¯Ts ¨¦  ªb § i ·  ¬ yx °¦ ª X W  ° ¬  ²m²¡ V ¤ ¦  ü ïx áx ã| á  à¦ å ït åÂ û »ï8 ê á ñI ã t þb âg å 8 þ át üG ß áb6 ¢  åG ñÂ á% ÿg ü  à ñ Íã êb ï Ým»æb ë åFòFä  á ñs ã ú Ým â Ý» ê ã û¾ êx ï Þ ü á þB ú ¾á ê ï  x å ¹üi ê  ÿ Ý¾x ë á t  ¤  ü8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þ ã ï åÂ á ñã  ú ÝG á ã¦ åe ãÃ ü  ñ ãÍG êR ÿ ¦ ñb Þ åm Ý ï û ûbG å »á ëf   x à át üx â) á ïb ß ÝH æ â¾ ê ïbt å| û b àB Ý ÞG á ïå á ÿ¤  ãt å ñG ã8 ü á ï ß üx â á¤»ãt êm ç ¦¨ët þb âx Ý8 Þ á üFt þ â5 åx ç ü »át ë   x à át ü8 âd á  ï ßm¤ Ý »âê þ áþt¾ßëBt  Þ â¾F ê 5 á   âx åg Þ g ü à ñ Íã êb ï Ým»æb ë åFb á £¢ êB ã8 Þ áG  É á ¦¨ ë ñm»æt ê¤ ñ  á ü á ñã ãt  å ñ ãHüt â åI á 7 à »ãx ê çm¦¨ ëe ã ü¦¾ï êr p y ¤ ¹ þb ë Ý±Vú é Ýe ÿi ã ¹ü ê ¾üt ê ñ ã)b ú| Ý  áX ü Ý û ï ßû át¼ ñ ì i¤6 & m¡# " d î Ð ì ¾âg ê ¦ üx ï| á  àb ï ±Ý úx ï5 á û³e ã ü á   á ñi ã úbÝÂ Ýe ÿã  á ïå ü  g à ñ Íã êb ï Ým»æb ë å) á8 ü á ñ ãb üR å ¡  Ýs ¼ é ÿ Ý ï¾þ@ ê  t þb âx å üFäH8 S  át þ ß¾B ë Þ »âê  Ý ãë±ßx ú á ïbx å ÞÄ8 âx á5 á  @ Ý ü¾b ëÃ å b á6 ¢ t åw ñ i á q3 ¤ » át ë ¦  ê üX ü Ý& û b ü å¦ ñ ¹Þ ê& ï übå á@   6 ¨ g å à ü »át ë   x à át ü8 â7 á  ï ßbR Ý  ãt å ñj ã  Ýx ü8 ç ü8 ï á â ï8 å ¾áG ë úF Ý © ¨x ã »á ê ï å¢ ám æb ï å¾i ë ) å ãB8 Þ ¾áx ë á7 ü  ÝR ã 8 þ ¾á ê ï ãb á6 ¢ t åG ñÑ á    ¤  ü8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þt¾ë êg å 8 à áG á ñã ¹þ¾ëêß    ÝG ã8 ü á ßXU} ê â¦ ñ8 Þ áÑ ã F ò d ä X ãx â áx ï á xêw þ »í êü 8 þ át üi ß b á6 ¢  å ñ ái 5 õ ù õ ¨  QR)0W  S '} t ù)  ö 5  6  $ # !# õ ù¤( ' % ¤ h G ~ ¦ üx ï á þ¾m ë Ý±¤ ú | á àm Ýü ü 8 á ãt å â¾I ê à¾¾êx ë% á ¹üê ñ¨ ã ãt å ñ ã áb ã Ý±â' | á¾ ë| û  à åB í á% ã8 ü áÂ ã ám¦¢ ê Íã êm ü5 Ý û á âbÝ  ãb ü å»á¨ ë ã åR»âb ê åX ã âbx Ý¨ Þ ãt å ñx ã ü8 ï á ¹þb ë Ý± úb ï Ý±` ú¦ üx ï á Íý ê ü üm¾åx ëR Þ â¾ ê¦ å ï ãH£¨ ë âbÝ á ÿ  ç¦ ñ Þb ï8 å á8 ü áï d î 3 ì »â¤ ê  á ï ß þB á Þ Ýt ï û þ¦ ït åt þ â¦ åe ãÑ ü  á ñ ã  ñ ãÍG êÿ á Þ B â å¦ þ ïbx Ýx Þb Þ å } â yr ¤ x ã áÃ ü  ã8 ü á³ ã á ñ ã m âj Ý á¾ ë   8 à á üx âI á  ïb ßÄ Ý þt âå ï8 á â ï8 å ¾áë&¦ ñ Þm8 åt á úb) Ýx át Þ âg å  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á ût á ñ& ã 8 þ á ã8 ü á ã t þb â åb8 çx ã áI ü b â Ý¾ êã é å¹þ»êëb  å ¢t þ âb å æ»ât ê »âb ê å ï7 ã  þ á»ât ê   àbx ÝG Þ á ñI ã b â¨ Ý8 ït á ýÍ ê üb ü ¹åB ëR Þ ¦ ñ Þm8 åá þ át»âb 8 ê å ïB ã áR ï á` ÿ çb£¨»ëb ët å â¾ ê' p ¤3 á ï ß üb å| á R à o f v p 8 þm á æ¦ åx ïb á6 ¢ w å  Ýx ï ¾Þ| ê à  á ñi ã  Ýd ã  æ â¾ ê¦ þb ïx Ýx Þb ÞG å á¾ ë   8 à á üx â) á ã8 ü5 á    á ñR ã t þb â åx ï át ü ß á ñ ã¨b ï Ý±ú ï8 á â ï8 å ¾áë)¾áb ët æ »â ê¨ ü ã8 ü5 á  o á ñ ã ã8 Þ á¾x ë á¤ ü  Ý ã ü ã8 ü á ã) á ü á ñ ãb úx Ý¦ ü Íãët ß ü áï á ñj ã 8 þ á ütw ß t þb ât å8 çx ã á ü âb¾Ý ê ã å ¾þê¾ ë å¢ t á ñj ã b âÒ Ý à ñ Íã êb ïm Ý æ»b ëw å ¦ ñ Þm8 åá þ á ã8 ü á ã x ât á ñj ã i á rQ ¤ B ã áÑ ü  æ â¾ ê ¾â ê å¦ ïj ã  á ñÄ ã âb Ý âm»Ý ê ã Þ ág ü s ãB í áâ á ñ| ã ¾â| ê 8 þ5 á ¦  êB ï Þ8 ü á þg ü  à ñ »ã ê ïmb Ý æ¾ ë åiF ò d ä á ñ` ã ú| Ý ñ¦b Þ å| á 8 þ á â¾ ê¦ å ïã þtb â åIh ¨b ïm Ýx æ á ãx åj Þ ¦ ñb Þ8 å á¼m ï Ý±% ú¦ üx ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ëg Þ h ¨ ït å â¾ ê    þ á ã8 å á ïBi Þ ái ¤ B  ã áF ü ãe ü ái ã  á ñÐ ã »âê n g ' #  ët å âi ý t á ñ@ ã  þ â¤ å B ã áÐ ü b â Ý¾ ê ã å þ¾¾ê ë å¢ á ñ ãu¾âÈ ê ng37 t þm âB Ý Þ áw ü  á ñD ã8 çx ã ái ü æ»ât ê »âb ê å ïg ã á ñ ã»âêu þB á Þb¹åëû áx  ï ág ÿ % n g3o 7 e ã¦ üt ïd ý á ñ| ã  þ âA å x à á ñI ã 8 þ ám¦¢8 êB á8 Þ á ïx ï át üd ß á ñ ã  á ãåþ  á ñ ãu ¨  ! þ á8 ï á¦ þb ïw Ý  á8 ïÂ áI ÿ ¹ü»ëb ê| å yàB éá  á ñ¼É ì  ¤ x ã áÃ ü  ã8 ü ái ã  å þt âå ãx á üb â ¾Ý ê ã å ¹þ»êb ë å ¢ å¼8 çx ã á ü æ¾âê¾â ê¦ å ïi ã å ÝX ã »âêi¦ åb ï5 Ý ûm ïB Ý Þ ¦ ñ Þm8 åá ¾âi ê ¹ü»ëêb| å àyB ég á t á ñ7 ã »ã»êt ë û| ü b á6 ¢ t åg ñ  á ÿ ¦ ñ Þmm å Ý ï ûb û7 å ïßb& Ý  ã8 ü áw ã Ýxì ` #` õ ùb I GH6 5 õ ù õ %  # F ÷ õ õe ö ùD    ÷ ù 4 P ù  F @W)0W ¾ë ë åli ú  Ý ã 8 þ á ü¾¾ê ëg å  àb ï Ý â ¨£»ëb ët å ßt ü³ ß  á ï| å 8 üt á »ßëb å¢ s ú þ ý³ ã  á¼ ñì 5  ¤ ¦ ¥ ü ïx ßx Þ ÞÝ 6 ñ ¹Þ ¦ êG ñ ÿ â¾7 ê  D B ã á| ü  æ »ât ê »âêb å ï ã¤t á ñw ã â»¼ ê¦ ü ãXx â| á  àB ß Þ Ý þ¨ úG Ý8 ï áf   às ßH â t á ñã ¨¦ ë| û à¾ êÂ ü ¾ü| ê ¦ ñ ¹ÞêD G ñX ÿ ç 5  àx ï áG ã á ñ ãb ú7 Ý B ´ ªB ¯t x ¡2 1 ¦ ¬ ¥t °x ¯|   £x ¡ ªb  5 ½ 9 á t ñ ã¤¾üd ê ~ 5 |    t þ â   å ç 3 E ã m â 8 á | à  ß B Þ  Ý  þ g á  ñ  ã F â ¾ d ê ü ¦ ï  ß B Þ 8 Þ  Ý  à8 ï á¤ ã á ñ| ã 8 ü| á ¾à ê ãH úÃ Ý 8 ï áf    à ßsF â  á ñ| ã ¾üI ê ~ 9 37 5t |    á8 ï áG ñ ÿ   &B6 8 A©Q~@ 76 5t 5| &4 938 |    Q ~ @ 9 3 786 3 3 &
~ ¤ ¦ ¥ üX ãx â| á »à êx ï5 á ûB íG á ïm ßj Ý ¾â ê B ã áü á  ï ß ã8 å ±áx ú ë» ë ±ß7 ú  á ñw ã  þ át ü ß ám6 ¢ t å ñ  á ÿ  ám ï Ý±B ú áx ï á ñ ãx ç ü át ï ß ã å ±áú¨ úÝ ï 8 áf   às ß â  á ñI ã  æ â¾B ê Þ ß8 þ á ïÒb à Ý ï±| ú G ¨ Þm åt ïB ßx Þm Þ¤ å »â ê üX ã â8I á 8 à ábh ¢  Ý ïû é ¾à I êX ãx â á ã ¹ü êt üm â ÝB Þ ÝR â 8 þ á ÿ Ý ñ| ü m â Ý» ê ã¦ åm ã8 â| á »à êx ï á5 ûB í7 á h ¨  ït å ¾â| ê »à¾êë é x át ïÐ û þtb âå  ü8 ï á âb ï8 å á¾u ë  á â»t ê¦ ñb Þg å ¤ à  ï ßb¤ Ý m ï ±ÝÑ ú »á ë¡    åB ãb Þ¦ å ïw ã b ü¼ åÿ © ¨ ãÍê¾ ët å âm»Ý êt ü8 âI á à¾ êd þ úbÂ Ý8 ë áb¥ ¢ ¾ áI ë ü¾t ê¼ ñ ìiv ¤ ¦ åb ï5 Ý ûb ïB Ý Þ á ñG ã ú Ý ¦ ñm Þ8 åá ïm±Ýj ú ¡ g g¡ ¥ t þ â¤ å g3 g  j r 7 x âx á áe ÿB ã5 á   © ¨» ã ¾ê ët åm â »Ý êt üx â| á ¾à êd þ  ú7 Ý  üm ï Ýã éB8 Þ áb¢  á ï ß ã å á±ú »âê  þ á »ãë ß8 ü ái ï s ãB í á ã á ñ ã  æ »â ê ãXx â á ü8 á ïx û ág ï  úÝ þ  Ý ñB ã| á 7 à ¹üê ñ ãx ç ü¦ þb ï Ý ÿ b û Ýe ã¤ ü  æ â¾s êh ¢ | Ý x à ái ï þ â åQ & $6¦ f"  à ñ Íã êï ébÝb¾æ ëj å æt»â| ê | à àx á ãX x ï á ãm ï¨ Ý¡ t á ñÃ ã t æ »â êt ü³ ß t æ »â| ê | à x à áe ãw ü  æ »âs ê £¨ ëû é  û åd8 ï á Tãú  i¤6 & m¡# r " â¾j ê â8b á £¢b êI æ ¹åë& ß 7 àb ï Ý±³ ú b â ¾Ý ê ã å ¹ü»êb ë| å  àb ït Ý â  á »â êü ébÝBÄ Þ  á ñ ãÅ8 þ át üi ß m á6 ¢ t å ñáÑ i¤¥ & f gx " b ë åh ¢ x ï áX ã »â ê  á ñu ã  á ¹þ êt ü ¾âê

5

 h &  m #" àm Ý ±ïw ú m â Ý» ê ãt Þ â ±ßD ús ú þ ýI ã æ»âG ê  ÿ ¾Ýë »éëb±ÝI ú á ñF ã  þ á üR ß m á6 ¢ t å| ñ i á f   ¤ ¦ ñb ÞX å Ý ït û ûu å e ¥ ½ Ái ° ¦ ´B ªB ¯t x ¡2 1 ¦ ¬¥  °B ¯g   £x ¡8 ªm  ½ x ¦ «B ¬ t  T¯I ¨  ËB ´ ªB ¯t x ¡2 1 ¦ ¬¥  £x ¬ yÐ ° 8 þ á ¾ü¾ê ëg å  àb ï Ý â¤t á ñã ü¹& ê ïb¾åt ë ßb û Ý5R û  ãm ü| Ý ³ à t á ñI ã ã ß5   b çh ¨  ï å¢ ü¦ þb ï ÝR ÿ X ã8 â á8 ï á5¦ ê þjt á ñã ÝI  ã  üX ãb ñ æ¾x ê á ÿ æ¾âêâm»æ ê üm üÃ å b ï Ý±| ú t ü þst Ý ñB ãF á  ä Q ¤ X ãx â| á  àB ß Þ Ý þFt á ñã ¾âê¦ þb ï ÝÃ ÿ  ã å ñH ã  ú¤ Ý áB Þ â å ãb ï5 Ý| û à»¤ ê t á ñI ã  üX ã8 â á ü á ï8 û á ï ¦ ñ ¹Þ êG ñ ÿ çt 8 ü ß ûb ïx ÝR Þ  á ñ ã â»w ê ¦ þb ï Ý³ ÿ h ¨ x ï áb ¢  á b ï Ý±| ú t æ â» ê ãmm ñ »æ8 êÂ áÃ ÿ  å t ü ¾â ê å ãXm âB ÝÞ ãt  å ñx ã ïb ÝB ã8 Þ ám¢  å  ¨   8 þ áX ã8 â á ü á ï8 û áR ï x â á ñ ã ¹ü¨ ê ãm8 â| á àB ß Þ Ý7 þ ¦ ñm Þ) åè ¤ 8 y þt á »ý ê ãX8 â á¾þg ê  á ï& å t ü ß û ïbB Ýi Þ  æ â»t ê »âb ê å ï| ã  á ¾ï êX ãx âj á  á ñu ã ¾â ê  ü¦ þb ï Ýÿ áX ß U}ê âi ß  á ñ ãd»ëëb å ç¦ ñ Þmm å Ý ï ûb ûÃ å  ü¦ þb ï Ýi ÿ b ú Ý æt å   á ñ ã}ây ¤   üX ã ñb¾æx ê áÃ ÿ h ¨ ït å â¾ ê   éb ât Ýw â  ñ ÍãG ê¼ ÿg ü  àx ï á ãb üå ü¦ þb ï Ý ÿ8 ü át ü ßg é ¦ ñm Þ åm Ý ï û û7 å  « ½ ¬) H © e ¥w  x ®¦ §Ã º á ñ% ãg é ¦ ñb ÞX å Ý ï ût ûå â| b Ý | à b àx Ý ÞH ãm ü| Ý & à t á¼ ñH ì  ¤ g ü  à8 ï áã  þ áX ãb ñ æ¾x ê á ÿ ú¤ Ý b ï ÝB ã8 Þm áe ¢ H å b üå ãx X â| á  àx ß Þ Ý7 þ  å  æ â¾ êX ãx â á8 ü á ïx û á¨ ï8 ü ám¦¢m ëb Ý ¢¾â& ê ¨£»ëb ëx å ¹Þ ê ûs© ¨% ã ¹üê ñ ã d î ì ây ¥ } ¤ g ü à ñ Íã êb ïm Ý æ»b ëi å  ò äb ï ±Ý¤ ú á» ë¡    å »ãê ßG ü ãg å  à ïm±Ý7 ú g å  ÝX ã ¾â ê ¾ü¾ë êg å à é7 x á  á ñ% ã úw Ý âb¾Ý ê ãg å  à ïb±Ý út ü â¦ å ï& ã á ñ ãü¾G ê8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë7 Þ ¹Þ ê ãg å b à Ý ã ßå â@  å æ¾â êB ãt Þ ß ï ãt üb â Ýxg Þ úbÝ  ü üB á Þ Ý ï û  á ñÅ ã ¾âê x û áe ã ü  ã¦ ü ïtu ý  á¼ ñì  ¨ ¨©§ 0 # ×) (' & %$  # Ô Ús Ô Ø "³ Ô !  Ô   5 õ ùss ) W  )  ö % ö 7 6 # ' Ã  cö  x #G  öd  % #( ¦  0 ¤ ¾ I Ý ê ã¦ åï ç8ü¾¾ë êg å yàB é áH ú7 Ý 8 ï áf    à ßs â¥ ¤0 ¨m ïb Ý8 æ á ã8 åj Þ m á æb ï å¾ ë £¨x ëm á ¦¢ ê ã ¹åx ë áI ï ¾ïx êt á ñã ¨%  þá¾ â ê ¹åëûB í á ã ï å7 û â» ê ü¹ ê ¦ ñ ¾ÞêG ñ ÿ çm¨Íú ê üm ü ¾åx ëH Þ £¨¾ë ë åx¹Þ ê ãg å b à Ý ã ßå Ý  ã ã8 ü á þb ït åi ñ á ñH ã  áx ï á7 ÿ ¦ å ïb5 Ý ûm ïB Ýg Þ  7 x ï ád ü E et þ âI å # x ï ád ü e t á ñã ãt  å ñÃ ã t þ âb ß ±Ýú56 & @ "  ñ ã8 å á ïÂ îF Þ Ã ä  þ â| å 6 ¨  å ©` ç¦ þb ï ±Ý¼ ú ÿ¦ åÂ ï îv ¤ # ¾ á ë  é åi ì x á ás üx ç ü »á ê ïbm Ýx æ á ãx å| Þ ¡ 9 § m t þb â7 å @ $ x â8 á áÂe ÿx ã á   áb6 ¢ t åj ñ t þb âi å 8 á »ð êü ¾â ê ü¹»ëb ê| å yàB é áÂ¡ # % $ 9  Ý ã g¡3 m  7  àb ï Ý±D ú ábæb â åH ï ¥ ¨ t á¼ ñ ìv ¤ ¦ åb ï5 Ý ûm ïB Ý Þt ïb ß ±Ýú ã ü ïG ý á ñI ã  þ á üG ß áb6 ¢ t åG ñ áR ÿ ¦ ñm Þm å Ý ï ûb û) å ïb ßG Ý á ãt å ¾ß ë å ¢ 7 á x Ýì å¦b ï5 Ý ûm ïÂ Ý î »ëêbg å Và é7 è  á ñ¼ ãm ï ±Ýúx ü ¹Þ ê ã ¾ü ê ã ås ã ` # »át ë   D åì

|  C  CD

D

9 m 3 # f 6 9 $
6 5

«x ¦ ¬b  ½»  x D e ¥7  B ¬¦ g º £ ¡ ¡ ¢« T ¨g § } £ ¦£ ¢ e ¥7  x ¬¦ | º  £7 ¡ ¡ x ¬x  «x 

# $ 9 9¡ ¥ g¡% m 7 # j 3



f

#

m

7

 éb ñ æ¾x ê áâIe ã ü áb ï8 å áj â á»¾ë ê ñG% ÿm ç áBt Þ âb| å  à ïb±Ý úx ï5 á û þ Ýsb ÝÑ æ ¦¨8 ë áb£¢ ê ã å¾8 ë áï þ 8 á ÿ Ý ñ¤ ü Ñ é b â Ý ï ã8 ûB á¦ Þx ï5 ád û i é x ï á ýÍ ê üm ü å¾x ë& Þ  ï å á¾â»ê7 ë 8 ï á ñ ãbÝâ  I ¤ 7 x ï á üt¼ ßb ï Ý±j ú  þ ¾ïê ñÃ ã t þb â| å t m t þb â å f ¦ üx ï át üG ß ïmÝ±Ã ú t þ âmB Ý Þ á| ü æ¾âI ê àmB ÝÞ ç¾ëx ë á ÿ8 þ| á  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á û  Ý ¹ü ë³ å Q ~ fräH8 S  | F ü äHS8tï å á â¾ ê òg ¤ t ü ßû éb  ïx ÝÄ Þ ¦ ñ Þb å áÄm âR Ý 8 ï á âb ï å8¾á³ ë á¾b ë æ â¾ êI ü 8 ï á ñb ã Ý% ¨ b â åb ât å ñI ã x ï á ãx ã á  þI á  à ïb±Ý úx ï5 áG û çb á ïb±Ýx ú á   âm»Ý ê ãx å5 Þ Íý ê ü üm¾åx ë¤ Þ ë¾ êg å yàB é áÄ ÝÉ ã 8 þ ¾á»êt ë û ûå âx 8 á á5  ã Ýt7 â b ü åÃ ñ áb æ þ »áG ë ÿt ÝX âf   ï ßbG Ýb úR Ý  ã8 ü5 áx    á ñF ã  Ýu ã ¦ ñ Þ¹ êG ñÿ 7 ç s   ¤ ¦ üx ï át üR ß t á ñ¨ ã ¾ë ëi å ïb±Ýúie ã ü ár    á ñ¤ ã þI á  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á ûHx ï á â ï å »áë á b | à å ü¼ á ñD ã ã å ñ ã  þ â ßb±ÝÂ úÂ á ÿ yç6 & #"  þ â åh &  "  Ýd ã h ¨  ï¦ å ï ãXm âÂ Ýî ¤ b  â ¾Ý ê ã8 å Þ »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ëi Þ ¹Þ ê ãg å m à Ý ãb ß7 å  á ï ß ã±ß¼ ú ïb±Ý³ ú 8 þ át üß þtâb å2 ~ B ã á üd ã8 ü á³ ã t þb âj å b â Ý¾ ê ã å¹þ»êb ë å ¢  ç æ »ât ê »âêb å ï ã%¡ ¤ á ¤l ê' | x ï át ü ßi á ñã  ¨ q   8 þ á ãïm ÝH ü ü¾¾ë êg å yàB é¨ á ë¾ ë åim â Ý¤8 þt á »âêb å ïB ã áR ï 5 á   âbx å¤ Þ 8 ï át»ý ê üb ü å¹B ëÞ  á ñX ã ç¦ ñ Þmm å Ý ï û û å ãB8 Þ ¾áx ë áw ü  þ âd å  ã8 ü áI ã å ñ¦t Þ ßg ü æ»â êt üw ß 8 þ á ã Þ á»8 ë áü ¾üêRx ï á üt ß ¦ ñ Þb å& á m ï Ý± ú x ï á â ï å »á| ë  ã8 ü5 áx    á ñg ã B át Þ¤ â 4  ¤ 8 ï á üt ß ¦ ñ Þm8 åá b ï Ý±úx ï á â ï å»áëH¾áb ë æ¾â êd ü  ã8 ü5 á'    á ñ ãB ã8 Þ á¾x ë ág ü  Ý³ ã 8 þ át üÃ ß ¨£x ë áb£¢ êB ã8 Þ áG  á á !b âx å| Þ B ã á üÄb â ¾Ý ê ã å þ¾¾ê ë å§ ¢ á ñ ã³B át Þ8 â á s ¥ ¤  ü â8 ï á ã ãt å³ û x á Þt âg å à  éb ï ±Ý úx ï á5g û  ï ¹å¾ëI ê ¾à êg ü 8 ü á ãx å ¹Þ êt þ â¾I ê  ü8 ï á âb ï8 å á¾Ã ë X ãx â áx ï á x ê¤ þ á ñ| ã b ï Ý±ú ã x á ü&ã8 ü á ã¤t þ âbÑ å m â »Ý ê ã å¹þ¾ê ë år ¢ á ñ ãib â ÝH ü »ã ë ß8 ü á| ï á ñ ãix â8 á áÂe ÿx ã á  âb Ý ¹ü êb ï åt| û b àB ÝÞ  ¥ ¤ 8 ü Þ¾¾ê ë¦ å ãÍ ê »â¤ ê 8 âb á £¢êb æ  á ïd å ¦ ü ãÍt ë ß ü áH ï e ã ü áf    á ñã t þ âbå³ á ïßm ü8 å| á ³ à fo p h ~ ¦ üx ï á ¹þb ë Ý±) ú »ëëbR å 8 ïb áh ¢ Ý±| þ8m á æ¦ åx ïm á6 ¢  å  Ýx ï ¾Þ| ê à  á ñj ã  üX ã â8 á ü á ï8 û áÐ ï 0 ¨ ï ãm8 âÐ á ¦ ñ Þm) å è! ¤ x ã á ü  ã8 ü á3 ã  þ âå b â ¾Ý ê ãt å ¾þê éÍb ë å¢ âb& Ý 8 ï á ü ß ¦ ñb Þ å& á ïb±Ý& ú  ü »ã ë ß8 ü á³ ï  á ñ7 ã ü¦X ãx â á8 ü á ï¤ û t m á¾ ë¡   åì #3   d a ( ' % 1 )  öc S ' } t ù  mx 5 õ ù õ ù ó )6Q  ö 5   4 ! #   6 # '   S # ` # ©  õe ös ù sd  ` øs  3 ù  © ÷õu  } 9  s øx # ¨ Q ¥ ¤ ü¦X ãx â| á »à êx ï5 á ûB í á¼ ï ßmw Ý ¾âx ê6 & ¥ #" b â Ý¾ ê ã¦ åX ãx â| á x à á¾ ëû éR¾à¤ ê  å¥  Ñ á e  á ñÑ ã 8 þ át ü| ß b á6 ¢ t å³ ñ ái§  i ¤h &  m ¦ f" 8 á á ü  üb á6 ¨ å¼t ám¦¢b êd å  b âi Ý âb¾Ý ê ãg å  àb ï Ý± ú â¾| ê  á ïm| Ý  à b ï Ýr p  ¤  ü »ã ë ß ü á ïi þs Ýb Ýæ 0 ¨8 ï ábo ¢ áBt Þ ß þ Ý ï& û b âx å Þ8 üb á6 ¨ ¼ å tEb á ¢£ ê¤ å 5   ü8 ü á¾x ët á ñB ãt áb â Ý â¤ ç d î ì æâ» ê þt»ßx ët Þ â¾Â ê üb â Ý¾ ê ã å ß »ã êI ü æ»ât ê âb ï8 å á¾g ë % ¨ âbg å ³ à â¾Â ê ¹ü ê übt å    Ýâ b ü åtÑ ñ ¦¨ ë ï å »áx ëÄ Þ âb¾Ý ê ãI û t à ß üb ü| å ¹üê¼ ñÑ ì  ¤  üb ü ¹åëBj Þ t á ñ ã 8 âb á ¢£b êæ ãm8 â át þ8 â á8 û át þ ¾âêF áb ï å³ ü á»ßb ë å ¢  á ã ß¦  ê ï ã ãå  ãt å ñg ã 8 ü| á  à ßü  é übåuyãy ¥ ¤  üb ü ¹åëB Þ b ï ¾åt ëB ß ¹Þ ê ã ït å û  å  Ýã X ü æb â ¾Ýx ë5 á!   á¾ ë| û  àå éXx í áb â³ å ãt å ñ ã© ¨» ã »ê¾ëê    å¡    Ý ï¤ û  á ñw ã  á ãg å à» êe ã ü á Ýi ã  å ã åþ ætâ» ê ¾â ê¦ å ïÃ ã á ñ7 ã 8 ü át ü& ß yã§ y  ¤ 8 ï á â ïb8 å ¾ái ë âb¾å ê8 üm á6 ¨ å¼x t b á £¢ êB ã8 Þ á±ú éTB ú á¨£ ëb ñ æ¾ êÃ ñ  ãt ß§   á¾ ë| û ¾à ê üug å ¹üI ê E ~ t v | 8 üm á6 ¨ å¼§ t ám¦ ¢ êbd å  «b B  ´ §¤§ ¦  T ¨& § ¡ T ¤   ü ãX8 âI á ¾àê  é8 ï á ûB í% á ïtb ßI Ý »âê t à ñ ã» ê ïmb Ý ¾æ ë³ å   d Ý s¼ é ÿ Ý ï¹þ@ ê  ¦ þ ï å þ â å ãü á ñ% ãb ú ÝFb â Ý¾ ê ã åX ãx â| á x à á¾ ë| û à¾¤ ê G â ÿ¤ Ý ïßm¤ Ý 8 þ át ü7 ß ám6 ¢ t å& ñ Ñ á  ¤ âm»  Ý ê ã å ü¾¾ê ë¦ åx ït áx â áb³ æ x ï á ãB ã5 á   b ï Ý±R ú  ü  ÿ Ý¾»ëb ë å t þb â| å X ã âb å8 ï á»m ë Ýã á ¹üb  ê Ý¤ â  ám ïI Ý à¼»ã) ê ü áb  g å  à ¹üê¼ ñD ìQ ¤ b ï Ý ïx ï| á 8 þ á ï åm ßh } j ü b â8 å| á à  ã8 ü á ÿ»ÝëR á ñ ã â¾ ê ¦ ü ãÍt ë ß ü á ïHãt å ñÃ ã h ¨  ï åt þt âb ß5 Ý   ï å á¾â»ê7 ë t á ñã þt â ýH Ý ãh ¨ ï ã ë¾¾ëG ê ÿ ãÍH ê  å ã å% þ ï å á»â¾êyë éb â ÝI â âbI Ý â ß5 ï ú»¨ êx ïm á¥ ¢ á é¼ ÿ Ýtñm8 ç8 ü ¾á ê ïb åt þ âm ß Ýr   âm» Ý ê ¾üx ê8 Þ áÂ þ ï8 åt á »â¾êVëéb â Ýg â  â ï å »áë)b ã Ýâ âbx åj Þ ¡  Ýs é¼ ÿ Ý ï ¹þ@ ê 5  ¡ ¤ B á Þmlå út ï ß% üb ï Ý ïx ï á  á ñ| ã b â ÝX ãx âx á Þ ü áþ ãXx â ¾á êm þ å ïmi æ  ã8 ü5 áx û8 á á ã& ü  á ãg å »à ê í Ý ï û ûÑ å  â¤ å  Ýd ã  üX ã âm ß| Ý  àå ¾üê¼ ñ¨ ì ¤¡¾áë| û  à åx í¤ á æ¾â ê â¾ ê¦ å ï& ã ¦ ñb Þ8 å á%m ï Ý±úH0  ïmÂ Ýe ÿx ã á â¼ á ñ ã úÝ ü  ã ßt û ãm ßÂ ÝB ã ám æb ï å| ã  þ â` å ët å ß ãm Þ åH á ñÃ ã 8 âx á áe ÿB ã5 á  B á Þx â áx ï á±ú éTÍú ê¤ þ á ñ5 ã úb Ý ïb Ý ïx ï| á 8 þ á ï å ßmh }Ã ü  â å| á d à  á ñd ã  á ¾ü| ê ¾àê¾âI ê & à  Ýã ï8 á¦ þb ï¤ Ý â¾³ ê h  b ï Ýe ÿB ã á7 â t á ñ¨ ã úG Ý¦ üX ãb ñ æ¾x ê á& ÿ á ñG ã ü ãt üe ß6 w þm¤ å yãy ¤ ütm  â Ý ï ãx ûx á Þ8 ï áÃ û t á ñ¤ ã  Ý¤ ã ¦¨ ë ï ¹å¾ëI ê ¾à ê üih ¨  ï åt þt âb ß5 Ý   m â Ý» ê ¹üB êÞ é B á þH ï8 åt á â»¾êg ë d å  ü â ïb8 å ¾áë¤ ã å ñÒ ã t à ñ »ã êm ï Ýb¾æ ëj å h  b ï Ýe ÿB ã átx â ë¦ åï  éx ß á âi% å ¹üt ê & 9" t à ñ »ã êm ïb Ý æ¾ ë% å ~ s  |   d Ý s5 é   Ý ï ¹þ@ ê    á ñ¼ì Ê& e  lÏ% ¦ ©  ¬ l½¨wÎ T
 ¤ ¥ ¤ ¦ ü ãm8 â| á »à êx ï5 á ûB íG á ïm ßw Ý ¾âA ê à ñ ãÍ êb ïm Ý »æb ë åwm â Ý ï ãx ûx á Þ8 ï á û  á ñã ú  Ý6 & ¥ #v " b â Ý¾ ê ã åX ãx â| á 8 à »áë| û ¾àd ê  å i á E  á ñ7 ã  þ át üÂ ßb á6 ¢ t å¼ ñÑ á   ¤ â»b ê| å m à Ý þid î ìÂ á ñ ã ¾â êb á ¢£ êB ã8 Þ áG  áH0 ¨8 ïb á' ¢ x â8 á á`   áb6 ¢ t åi ñ t þb âå ãb  ü åld ú  á ã» êX ß}  á ïb åt üb â Ý ï ãx ûB á¦ Þx ï á5 û çx ïm á¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý s¥ ¤  ü »á ë| û b à åx íá á £¢ b ê ã åm8 æ á â t þb âÂ å áb£¢ ê ã» êm ü5 Ý& û x â8 á áÂe ÿx ã á   âm»Ý ê ã¦ å ï åt8 û áü  àR ß à »é ê íg å Ã à á ñ7 ã  ü át âx ý áI þ  ãt å ñg ã t áb âÃ Ý á ñ ã¤æ ¡ ¤ á¨b çh ¨  ï å þ âb ß5 Ý  þs  Ýb Ýu æ ¨¦¾ëë8 å ¾Þ êB ã á ïb8 Ý á ñ ã ¤ å B át Þ ß þ Ý ï ûÑ Ýw ã »át ë   g å  ã Ýw â  áb ïå þtb â³ å  å ã å& þ á¾ ë   ¦ å ï åx û áw ü ¨£ ëb ï8 å á â¾ê¾7 ë  á ã åb ït åx û á¤ ü ¦¨ ëm âF Ý  â8 åÞ ¨  ¥ á ñg ã  ãt å ñ| ã ü¾I ê t üm â Ý ï ãx ûx á Þ8 ï á¤ û t á ñH ã  ú Ýwb á æ¦ åX ã â å ¢ b þ å ¹ü êþ â¾ êg å  à  á ñ¼ì  ¤ b â Ý 8 ü á¾»êëiÍãêÅ0 ¨ ïb åt þ âm ß Ý!   t á ñ| ã  ú Ý  á ¾þ êü ñ ¹ÞêG ¦ ñ ÿd æ â¾ ê â¾| ê  à8 ï áB ã áH þ ¨  8 þ á Íý ê üm ü å¾x ëx Þ ü¹ ê ¾á ë| û  à åB í á 8 ÿ áâ þ á¦ ñ Þm8 å áx ï ¹ü ê »ã| ê »àê¾ ë ¦ ñ Þ Ý8 û) á á ñ ã x â áG ñx ÿb ïi Ý 8 þ á Íý ê üm ü ¾åx ëÞ  ¤8 ¨ £ ëB ã8 Þ á ïm ïB Ý¤ Þ  á ïg å 8 ü á¾ ë| û  à åx í áÑt æ »â ê â¾ ê¦ å ïF ã  á ñG ã ¾ë ë@ å 8 â áG ñ ÿ ü á ãt å »â| ê  àx ï áÈ ã  à ñ ã» êb ïb Ý æ¾ ëj å  á¼ ñw ì G ¤ 2 ~ ãb Ý7 â b ï Ý ¦¨ ë ã8 Þ á ïb ïB Ý Þ| þt 8 á ý» ê ü üm¾åx ë Þ b ü å¼I ÿ ¾áë| û  à åx íg á  á ñ ã ÿÝÑ ñ b â¤ Ý  æ ¾â ê þt8 â á8 û áþ ~ » 6 á ë| û àb åx í áu á ñã m à Ý ï±É ú 6 ¨ å¼ ÿw å m ï³ Ý  ü¦ þ ï å¼ ÿ Ý3 ã 8 þm áh ¢ I Ý là| þ 8 á ã ût åb þ å ü¹& ê h ¨  ï å þ â ßb5 Ý   á ñb ãm ç »áë| û b à åx í| á ¦ ñb Þ8 å á úg Ý m â »Ý êã é  åX ãx â á8 ü á ï û  á ñ¤ ã x ï á ãTú  Q ¤ B ã á ü t æ »âê¾â ê¦ å ïu ã  á ¾ï êX ãx â á  á ñã ïm x áh ¢ & Ý  ü á üb ü åd û ú| Ý ïx5 á   t àX ß â & å  üb á £¢ëbb Ý ¢ â¾& ê  ü8 üx á Þ Ý ïÑ û æ¾âê é  â ï å »áÂ ë á¼ ñ ìI ¤  å ã åd þ æ¾âê¾â ê¦ å ï ãt á ñ ã â¾ ê ü »áë| û b à åx í áb á £¢ ê ãå éx b æ á³ â t þ â åHb á ¢£ ê »ã ê üX Ý¤ û á ñ ã8 ü á ã åb ït åx û á ü ãt å ñI ã h ¨  ï å þ âb ß5 Ý  âb¾Ý ê ¾üx ê8 Þ áÃ þ b ï å8á¾âê»Ñ ë F å x át Þ ßt þ ¾âêu ÝI ã 8 ü ¾á ê ïg ã yãy g ¤ 0 m ïÂ Ýe ÿx ã áâ ëb åt ïx ß áI â  ú Ý 5 á ûs© ¨u ã »á ë| û à¾ ê ü F å ü¹& ê  & 9" b â Ý ï ã8 ûB á¦ Þx ï5 áû  ¤ T ¯   V¬5 °} ²¦  ªx ¬ ¥ ¤   üX ãx â| á ¾à ê8 ï á ûB íG át ïb ß Ý »âA ê t à ñ ã» êm ïb Ý ¾æ ëI å j ¤ 7 î á t ñ ãb ú Ý6 & ¥ #§ " m â Ý» ê ã¦ åm ã8 â| á x à ¾áë| û »àê¤ å¥  Ñ á ot á ñ& ã 8 þ át ü) ßm á6 ¢ t åñ á  ¤6 Ñ &  9 ¦ f" j ¤ 7 ³ î üB b â å¾t ë â» ê ß¤£ ¢ ¾üw ê b á æb å2  Þmt åu û  æ ¾â ê âb ï å8¾áë ìHI Û b ï å¾ ët ßb û Ý5I û  ãm ü| Ý w à á¼ ñ ìÄy ¤  þ á â ß ï û¦¨¾ë ë8 å ¾Þt êX û© ¨³ ã  áb ïå üH G ì R Û æt»âê¾âê¦ å ï ãx ï ámh ¢  ÝX ã8 â áb¥ ¢  á ï| û  Ý¨ ì ¤ 8 þ á â¾ ê¦ å ã¡   ¼ Ý ¹üj ê m â »Ý êã éx  å Þ »ý ê üb ü å¹B ëR Þ á ñw ã t þb âå 8 þ á¦ ñ Þm8 å á ï ü¹7 ê á þ Ý% â ú å »á| ë ¨ å »ë êX ã âß ü á ß¾ ë åy ¢ üB ¾ á ë| û  à åB íÂ á á ñG ã Ý ã æ »âêt þb â5 Ý û ü á ïb ï Ýx7 Þ  ñ ãt å) û á ñã ÿ Ý»¾ëb  ë Ý± ú t þb â å x á á ï ã t á ñ| ã  ú¤ Ý ãs Ý Ý ï  á ñF ã  ã å  ã ï¦ åe ã ü  áÿ á¾ ë| û  à åB í áiâ¤ å ¨ú» ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ x Ý7 ì  ¤ 8 þ á ã8 å áB ï Þ ü¹) ê ú å »áj ë R å  áb ü8 åÞ ñ ¹ÞêG ¦ ñ ÿu»â êx çb â Ý¾ ê ã8 å Þ »ý ê ü üb¹åB ëg Þ | á  à åÃ ü á ñI ã m á6 ¢ t åg ñ á þ Ýw â å ãd  å ü8x át Þ â¦ åe ã ü »â ê »ëëb å ë¾ êX ã â ßdx ã át üI    ßF ü ¦ ñm Þ8 å ám ï ±ÝÃ ú £¨x ëb á £¢ ê ü ïx ßÞ x é á ï þ á ã å á8 û áÃ ï ¾ü| ê  ü8 üx á Þs Ý ïF û t á ñ¼Å ì ¡ ¤ t á »ßb ë å ¢  á ã ß£  ê ï ã ãå á¾ ë  £ ê üm ü5 Ý û@¦ ñb Þ å³ á b ï ±Ý ú áb âd Ý x ç¦ üB ã át üv    ß ü  ÝX ã â¾Ã ê  ü »á ë| û b à åx íá t á ñ% ã ü á ¹þêX£¢ê þ ü¾t ê¼ ñD ì3 ¤ á» ßb ë å¢  á ã ß ¦  ê ï ã ãd å á¾ ë £  ê üm ü5 Ýg û ¦ ñb Þ åá ïm±Ý¼ ú á þbg å à)¾ü| ê ¦ ñt Þb â å ï   áb âm Ý¨ §  ã Ýs Ýd ï  á ñ ã ã| å  þB áb Þ ¹å ë| û t þb âå þ 8 á ã Þ»á8 ë á ü¾ü ê ~ â¾ êm å³ æ b â Ý¾ ê ãg å  àb ï ±Ýú¾âH ê á ñ& ã  Ý ã  æ ¾â ê¦ þb ïx Ýx Þb Þ å| á  ã ß  £ ê ï ã ã åm ãb â å ãb ï5 Ý| û »àê) ã üm| Ý  à t á ñm ã çi¤ ì  Û d å x á Þt ßt þ ¾â7 ê  Ýì ¤ 8  ü á üm ü å¾x ëd Þ á ñi ã  Ý ã é8 üm á6 ¢ 8 å á¾ë á ñ& ã  þ â å ü á»ßëbå ¢  á ã ß£  ê ï ã ãå Ýt  ãx é üsI  â»¾ ê ë) á ñ ãx ç¦ üe ã ü á ã á ã ß£  ê ï ã ã åd Ý ã¤t þ âm Ý û8 ü á ïm ïB Ý) Þ8 á á ïã át ñ ãb ú Ý¤ ü á þÝ| â  á¼ ñ7 ì v ¤ à ñ »ã êb ïb Ý æ¾ ë å æ¾âê â ï8 å ¾áI ë b á £¢ ê ã Þ ßþ é»âG ê ïb¾åët ßb û Ý5¼ û ãm ü| Ý ài á ñ ãd á ï¼ å2 ~ üG¤ ì Û' | 8 ü8 á á ï³ ã m â »Ý ê ¾üx ê8 Þ¤ á Û   T  ¦  ¬ 3 ¯ l ¨ ¹«B ¨¦ ª ¡ ¤¡© ¨ ã »ï ê ñã þ âbj t å áb ¢  ým ç áâbi Ý  Ý) ã ët åX ß } u á f  b ï ±ÝD út ç æ â¾ ê ãbb Ý¢  þ á ãXb ñ ¾æx ê áÿ át x Þ â¦ åe ã ¹ü ê¤ þ t þb â& å ¹Þ ê ïB ã| á 7 à B á Þ â å ã ¹ü êR þ á ñ ã¼b üå © ¨» ã ê ïb¾å¾ë| ê »à êü á¾â êm üB Ý Þu ñ ã»G ê ÿç  à ñ Íã ê ïbm Ý »æb ë åÆ     á ñÂ ã úÑ Ý b â ¾Ý ê ã¦ åX ãx â| á à x é »át ëI û à¾ ê6 & ¥ #§ "  å¥  Ñ á  t á ñg ã  þ á ü ß¤ á ÿ üX ãx â| á ¾à ê8 ï á ûB í¼ á ïm ßÝ ây  } ¤ 8 üx át Þ â¦ åe ãt ü ¾âÉ ê x  e ã ü áX ü »Ýx ëi Þ á ñ ã  úF Ý  á ã Ým¢ © ¨» ã êm ïe Ýh w g å à á t ñ ã ¨%   þ á¹þB ê8 Þ áÐ þ x â á ñg ã ü¹Ã ê  üb ü ¹åB ë Þ t á¼ ñì ¥ ¤  ü »á ë| û b à åx íá æ¾âê¾â ê¦ å ï ã ë»b ëF å t þ âI å á»t ëI û b à åB íá x ÿt áR â á ñ¤ ã x â8 áÂ áe ÿx ã á  v© ¨» ãê  é ï ¹å»ë| ê ¾à êÃ ü t á ñ ã t þt âw ý  Ý ã 8 þ át üi ß ¹ü| ê Þ¾ ê ïx ãI á I à B á Þ â å ã ¹üêþ  âm»Ý ê ã8 å Þ Íý ê üb ü å¹B ë& Þ m ï ±Ý ú  þ áX ãx â á8 ü á ï& û ¾üg ê á¾ ë| û  à åB íá 8 ÿ áâ å

âm Ý 8 þ áb ü åt5   x ï á¾þëm±Ý ú ¦ ñb Þ å ám ï Ý± ú 8 þ á ã Þ»á8 ë áD ü ü8 ï áf   x à| á à)¾áëf   x à á ütx âá á ñ ã ü ÿ Ýt ñ ü yã1 y I ¤ { 7 á¾ ë¡    å7 ì ¾âêH8 þ á ü¾ ê ïg å | à  à ß ü áb ïx å ü »ã ë ß8 ü á ï á¼ ñì õ 1 6  6 ) Q #¢  T S# ¤ # ' g  cö õ ö ù d   ø4   2 1  # ' F ¤ b  â Ý¾ ê ã åm¾æ ê ã8 ü áb ¢ â¾ ê x ït á ñ ã ï±ßúÂ8 ü á »ïêX ß }Q áï át ß ü ¾üêI¹ü ê ñ ã t þ âå ¤ ä S8Ex ë á âx ïm áf  ïb8 å á â¾¾êj ë  á ñ ãb ât å ñI ã x ï á ãx ã á  | ü  àb ï Ý± úx ï á5Æ û s '  ãt å ñt ã çx ï ám¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý³ ñ  æ â¾ ê ü¾ ê ï û ï ßi ü ü¹ ê yãy ¤v¦ å ã åþ ã åt  ñx ã ü¦X ãx â á8 ü á ïx û á7 ï £¨x ëb á ¢£ êB ã8 Þ áG  ¼ á á ïb| Ý àx ë á þs| Ý % àb ï8 å á¾â»êëH) å ãt å ñã ü ¾áê»ëtûI¾àg 8 ê £¨ë| û ¾à êÃ ü 8 ë á â8 ïb á !b ï8 å á â¾¾ê@ ë  á ñÑ ã t ü ß¦ üx ïb ár ¢ ~¡ # H ä S8| ë á 8 âx ïb á`  Þ¾ ê ã¦ å ïb þ åm ß }E á ñ& ã  ñ ÍãG êD ÿF ü äH8 S Et á ñ ã úÂ ÝB át Þ âbg å  à ïm±Ý ú8 ï áû ïb 8 á  åÂ á ÿ á¼ ñx ì ¤  ü0 m ïÂ Ý¨ ÿ ã å ñ ãH0 ¨b ï åt þ âm ß Ý  D å ïm±ÝúH¡  Ýs» Ý ë £¨ë| û ¾à êü üâb Ý ï ã8 ûB á¦ Þx ï5 áG û »á¾ëêG ñ¨ ÿb ï Ý ï ï8& á âm»Ý ê ãx å5 Þ ýÍ ê üm ü å¾x ë Þ á ñ ã%8 ü á ¾ü| ê à¾ ê »â| ê à ñ ¹Þ ¦ êG ñÄ ÿ h ¨  ït åt þ â ßb5 Ý  r@ å t þ âÄ ý  ¨ á ñ| ã ümÃ å t üm â Ý ï ãx ûx á Þ8 ï á@ û b ât å ñã ë±ß ú8 ïÂ á ÿ5 Ýû  áb ï| Ý µ à  á ïbå ¦ üx ït á »ý ê üm ü å¾x ëÞ s   ¤  ü8 ït á ý» ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ äHS8 þtb â å âb Ý ï ãx ûB á¦ Þx ï5 áÐ û t á ñÒ ã b ât å ñÉ ã 8 ï á ãx ã á  g ü  à ïm±Ý ú8 ï áû s   ¨ G ñÿ t æ »â êx ï á ¹þ êt üb âx ÝÞ  ñ ãm ïÂ Ý ÿ ¹üê »ãÒ ê b ç £¨ë¾ ët å â¾D êp ¤3b áb æ åX ã â å ¢ m þ å ¹ü êG þt üm ß Ý» êx ï á| ü åG¾üê ~6 át ï ß ã å á± úX ãb â å ãb ï5 ÝI û à¾& ê âb¨ å ¾ü ê| á  àt åD â ü¨ B 8 ï át þx â á¼ ü á ñ ãI ¤ æ¡ ¤ l á | ü¦x ïá  é ñb ãw Ý b â åt ñH ã  áb ï| Ý G àx ï á ã ã| å | à Ýj þ ¨¦¾ë ë å áÂ ï ü¦ þb ï ÝVÿX é¥ ¨ ámt  ¾ â ê¦ å ã8 ïB áÞ áx  ït áG ñw ÿ â¾ êg å àm Ýg þ åF»âx êx ë á þ| Ý ³ à  þ á ¹ü¾ê ë å¦x ï á8 âb á| æ  å úÃ Ý 2  m Þ å¾& ë  á ñã ç8 8 ï á ñ ã ï ß5 p ¥ ¤  ü âb¾Ý ê ã8 å Þ »ý ê üb ü ¹åëBg Þ ¾â¨ ê8 ü á¾B êt Þ8 â á ã ü¾ êt üb âx Ýt Þ â¾ ê ¦¨ë¡   t å¡    Ý ïû  ã üm| Ý ¤ à  þ âd å ü¦x ï át þx â áD ü ë¾ êg å yàB é áb ú Ý8 ü ¾áës© ¨e ãw ü  æ â¾ ê »ã êG ïH ÿ ãm8 â á8 ï á5¦ êþ ¨¦ ë ãeüm å ¢ á ñ ã Ý ã á ßG þ çb á ¾üêmÝ7 â  ú¤ Ý  ë å á³ þ  ã å á ïm æ Ã å t ü â¾ ê å¦m ãm âB ÝÞ ë»b ê| å àyB é áB çh ~ ¦ üx ï á ãx ß á   æ ¤¡l á' |  ü ãsB í ád ã  á »ïG ê¼ ÿ ü8 ÿ á| â  Ý| ã  þ á ïbt å| û b àÂ Ýî ¤b â ¾Ý ê ã8 å Þ»ý ê ü üb¹åB ë¼ Þ á ñd ã  Ý¤ ã ¦¨ë¾ ë å ßmQ } ¤ á ¨£x ë á ãg å à¾s ê í Ý ï ûb û å ü á ãt ß ¦  ê ïã éb âx Ý Þ  á ã ß  £ ê ï ã ãå ¦ ñb Þ8 åá 8 â áG ñ ÿ t þ â å( ¨¹ ü êbt Ý â  ã ÝâF¾ü ê ¦ å ã åþ á ñ ã8 â áG ñ ÿ¤¾ëx ë áÿ  à ïm±Ý ú8 ï á| û  ü á ñ¦b ÞX å Ý ït û ûj å t ï ßb5 Ý%   ñm» æ8 ê á³ â  ã8 üá é ï å á   ¤ b â Ý¾ ê ãx å Þ »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þi¾ë êg å Vàx éÐ á m â Ý£¨ ëm ï Ýs Ý@ û þ| á  à ïm±Ý ú8 ï áû â 8 á ãTb úu Ý þt âR å X ã8 â á ã ¾ü êt ü âbx Ýt Þ â¾ ê üb¼ åR ÿ »ãR ê  ãt å ñÑ ã t þt âb ß Ý±g ú á ÿ çx ï ám¥ ¢ á é¼ ÿ Ý8 s ¤6 &  9 # "@ ü þ Ý ñB ã| á g à x ït á ñ ãÑ Ý Q m f  Ý ãÄ8 þ á ït å| û b àx Ý@ Þ x â áG ñÿ ~ ¦ 2 üx ï á ãx ß áGg | 0 b ü¦ åÐ ã d î ³ ì åFm â ÝH ã8 ü5 á   àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á³ û  Ý ã þt âm ß Ý±G ú üm åÿ ñ¦¹Þ êG ñ ÿis þt Ý ñB ã| á | à á¾ ë| û »à êj ü åi¹ü¤ ê t ïb ß5 Ý%   ñm» æ8 ê á â¤ ã8 ü á ï åáyâH é © ¤ ¾  û ê ñ ü8 ï áf   x à| á j à âm Ý¨ â úg Ý © ¨» ã »êë¾ ê    å  ¡ Ý ï û á ñ ãwb ât å ñã ï x á ñm»æê@ ñ £¨ ëX ãb âx å Þ ý» êb â æ¾ ê¤ ü ü¾ê û¾ ê ñ¦ üx ï5 á   8 à| á R à  ú@ Ý © ¨» ã ê¾»ëê¡   t å¡    Ý ïû á ñ¨ ã ü8 ü ¾áë â| ß û¾ ê ñ ü8 ï áf   x à| á  à ã ¹Þ ê8 þ á ï ûb ã Ý â â8 å Þx ït á ý» ê ü üm¾åx ë Þ á ñã ãt  å ñ ã Ý ü8 çt üm â »Ý ê ã ¹Þ ê8 þ á ï û t á ñ ã æ ¾âê¹þb ë Ý ñ8 ü á ï ñÄ ã ¨  8 þt áx â á ü ü »áë á   üt û åt ñx ï5 á û ¹þëb ßx ÝÞ x à á¾ ë¡    Ý ïi û ¾üê¼ ñì ¥ ¤  ü áb£¢ ê »ã êX ü Ý û  á ¹ü ë ålú  ¨ âg å Å à  ÝÄ ã t á ßg þ âb¾Ý ê ü¾x ê8 Þ á ïû ÿ¾Ý ë h ¨ x ïm áx ¢  úÉ Ý  át üx â5 á ûB íÉ á  á ñã ãF  å  ã ß  Vç¾ë ëx å Þ áÅ ï ñb¾æê@ ñ h ¨ x ïb á8 ¢ þbt å ñi¾ë ëw å  ü8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ëj Þ 8 üb á6 ¨ ¼ åt m á ¢¦b êd å   á ñ¼¼ ì ¤ âm» Ý êe ã ü áX ßv } ¾ â êG ü üb¹åB ë& Þ t á ñ| ã  Ý| ã t æb â Ý¾x ë5 á   ¾ ü ë¾ êg å yàB éá ãt  å ñ ã& üb â Ý¾ ê ã ¹Þ ê þ á ï7 û t üb ß ¾Ý ë åx á ðx ïb á ¢hÑ Ý  Ý ãÄ8 þ á ã ß  £ ê ï ã ãå 5 á   âbx åÞ üb á ¨6å¼t b á £¢ ê å¤ b ú Ý x át Þ âg å  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á3 û ïbs Ý5 ÝÒ û h ¨ x ïb á¢ t á¼ ñì i ¤» ë êbg å Vàx éw á â¾w ê t þ â ßm±ÝG ú ãTÍú ê ïd þ  ã û8B át Þ âmB ÝD Þb úG Ý ãmt â ßb| Ý  àå á ñ³ ã x âb á ¢£b ê æ¼X ã â¦ å ãm ï Ý| û ¾àÂ ê ¹üw ê ¦ ñ Þ¾ êG ñj ÿ b â Ý¾ ê ã| å  àb ï Ý±ú»âê¤»áë¡   ¾ å ¾ë ê å6 ¢ å ¾ë ë@ å æ¾â êt üw ß X ã8 âI á  à ü8 ü á üm ü å âbÑ å m á  g å à Ý ü¹ ë å âx å ÞÅ¥ ¨  á ñ¤ ã  ã ß  çh B ~ ü át ï ß ã å ±áú úÝ x át Þ â¦ å ãm ï Ý| û à¾ê á ñã  á ãx å ¹Þêt þ ¾âÈ ê  üX ãb ñ ¾æx ê áÿ â Ý¾ b êB ã8 Þ át âb â ÝBÞ s  â¾ê I ¤ æ¡ ¤ ± á|  ü át ï ß ã å á±ú ¥ ¨ m á  á ¹üêb âm æB Ý8 Þ áï ¨ á ¥ ñ ã3 â8 å@ Þ ¦¨ëâmw Ý b ã Ýâ  ãt å ñÐ ã ¾âw ê G ü ì¤Ñ Û b á £»êw ë ¹üx ë á þ| Ý ³ à 8 ï ábh ¢ Ý áb b æ åX ã â å ¢ þm7 å æâb Ý ï ã7 ü åm á6 ¢ t å ñ¹üx ë á þ| Ý ) à ïb8 å á ¾â¾ê ë  á¼ ñ% ìb ¤ 3 ~ j ¤ 7 V î| üáb âI Ý þ ám üt å   ¦ þb ï Ýs ÿ¥ ¨ m á  áb£¢ ê ãBt Þ ßt þ â¾| ê t þb â¨ å ~3¡ g m  '  ©  çj  '  © çf  ' m  ©| 8 ü á¦ ñm Þm å Ý ï û ûbF å ï8 åt á »â¾êVë é âb Ý â  ÝÐ ã 8 þ á ï åI û m àB Ý& Þ ¾ëx ë áÿ ¨£x ë ám¦¢ ê ã¹åx ë áï  àm ï ±Ý ú8 ï á6 û  ~ b â Ý ï ã8 ûB á¦ Þx ï5 á û2m çr f ¤ ä 8 S & ç s | g ü à ñ Íã ê ïbm Ý »æb ë å ïb8 å á â¾¾êëµ¹Þ ê ã ¹üê»m ë ÝA ñ ãt å ñµ ã  á ã8 å ¾Þ ê þ»âê ¦ ü Íãë ß8 ü áï ïm ßÝ 8 üb á6 ¨ å¼t b á ¢£ ê¤ å  úbÝ m â »Ý ê ãx ûx á ÞB íá  á ñã  ñ Íã@ ê  ¤ ü  þ Ý ñB ã| á @ à d î ¤ ì  ñ ãÍG ê ÿw â ïb8 å ¾á| ë  ÝÃ ã m â »Ýê ã å8 Þ Íý ê üb ü ¹åB ë% Þ úÝ  ã ïb Ý üi8 ï á¦ þ ït åw ñ | å b á £ê»i ë g ü x à8 á ái ü ¦¨8 ëb á ¢£ ê »ãê ß ãX¾âêi¦ ñ ¹Þ êG ñ ÿ`8 ç ütb â ¾Ý êB ã Þbå Ý¤  ã  æ â¾ ê þm ïB Ý8 Þb Þå  ám ïI Ý  à 8 þt á ý» ê ü üb¹åB ëÑ Þ  Ý ¹üëw å  á8 ïÂ áI ÿ ¦ üB ã á ü ¾ë êg å yàB éá þ âmB t Ý8 Þ áÂ ü á8 üt á ñ ã çx ï á ñ ã ït ß p  ¤  â ï å »áH ë  Ýx ãx ï á¦ þ ï åt ñ m â »Ý ê ã8 å Þ Íý ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ t á ñw ã  æ â¾X ê¡  g å  à ç¦ å ã åF þ  æ â¾ ê â¾ ê¦ å ïH ã  ü8 ü ¾áëib ü¼ åg ÿ  á8 ï á ñH ã 8 ït á Íý ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ ¨  h ï å »â ê  ¦ ñ Þb8 åÑ á b ï Ý±Ñ ú  ã å ñ ã X ã âb8 å| á à 8 þt á »âb ê åm ï æ £¨x ët át â ý áb ï| Ý à  áx ï áÿ ¦ åb ï5 Ý ûb ïB ÝÞ  á8 üt á ñ3 ã  ãt å ñ3 ã B ã Þblåú  á ñ¼ì ¤v¦ åb ï5 Ý ûm ïB ÝÒ Þ 7 ï 8 á üß  þ âå # 8 ï át üß 8 þt á »âb ê åm ï æÄïxt át â@ ý  á ñã b ât å ñ ãg¨Íú ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ ÝÃ  ã x ï ¾á êb ü8 å á  á8 ïÂ á ÿ çb¾Þt êb û Ý ãÄ Ýu ã  æ â¾ ê¦ þb ïx Ýx Þb Þ å@ þt á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þ  áx ï áÿ ¹ü»ëêbg å Vàx éÑ á  ¨ b â| å j à  á8 ï á ñG% ÿ çm t þ âw å e f ¦ üx ï át üd ß b ú& Ý ¦ üB ã á ü ¾ë êg å yàB éá þ á¾â 8 ê¦ å ïbH æ x ï á¦ ü ï åmx Ýg Þ  á ñ ã  ãt å ñ ã ÿt Ý ñi ü  ü ã» ë ß8 ü á ï  ïb ß Ýh & "  ñ »ãG ê ÿ ãx X â áe ã ¹ü êt üb âÂ Ýî  ¤ ü¹» ë êb| å yàB é ái¨ B  ü8 ï á üÑ ß X ãx â áx ï á ¦ ê þÅ æ ¾âx ê ¾ð êb ïb Ý8 æ á ãx åÞ ¨£ë¾ ëx å ¹Þ ê ãg å àb Ý ã ß å úb Ý © ¨» ã ëB ßÃ Þ )¦ êÃ þ  á ñi ã â¾| ê B át Þ8 â á8 ï á5¦êþ  æb â Ý ï ãü å á ã¦ å ï ãt üb â| Ý x à á@ þ m »át ë   D å ì »âê G â ÿ Ý ñ ü ¦ ü Íãë ß ü8 á ï á¼ ñì ¤ 8  ü á¦ ñm Þm å Ý ï û ûG å ü ßb¾ÝX ê ¢ á ïtj û b ât å ñ ã¦ üx ï á ütß ü üm  ÝB ïb Þ7 å 8 ï| á  à ïm±Ý ú8 ï á ûiþX Ým Ý æ £¨ ëX ãx â áe ã ¹ü êt üb â Ýx| Þ  áb ï| Ý w à 7 å ¹üA ê s  ãt  å ñ ãÂe ã ü ább æt æ ßI ü ¦¨ëmæb â Ý ï ãÂ ü¦ ü ãÍt ë ß ü á¤ ï á¼ ñ ì%¥ ¤ ¦ üm ã8 â| á »à êx ï5 á ûB í) á ïtb ßÝ â¾7 ê x ï| á  à ïb±Ý úx ï5 ái û  ã¦ üb ï Ýg ÿ á ñi ã m ü åu ÿ ¦ ñ Þ¹ ê ñGÿ t  ¹üÃ ê  á ü ß ¥ ¨ át ñã ñb ¦ Þ åm Ý ïûb ûF å  ï å á â»¾ê3 ë £¨ëb â Ý t á ñ ã ¨ § 8 ü á¦ ñ Þmm å Ý ï ûb û åÅ þ ám ü åt  »áë ßï á ¢¦ m ê ãt Þ ß þ â»@ ê  þ á ü ßÄ£¨x ëb á æ ï å¹¤ ë b á6 ¢  å¤ ñ h & " i ¤ ëj å x ã á¦ þb ï ±Ý¼ ú ÿ¦ åÂ ïî  ¤ âm» Ý ê ã8 å Þ Íý ê üb ü ¹åëBd Þ ë¾ êg å x à³ á b ï Ý±G ú ¾ëx ë á ÿ h  b ï Ýg ÿ ü þ Ý ñx ã| á Ã à  ï å á »â¾êë þ 8 á ã8 å Þ¾ êe ã ¹ü ê ñûm Ýü  ãt å ñ# ã ¨£ ë| û »àê âb Ý ï ã8 ûB á¦ Þx ï á5û t þ âå H ä S8 ï8 b å á â¾»ê ë& ç s I   ú Ýx át Þ âg å  à ïb±Ý úx ï á5 û  æ âm Ý ïe ã ü á ñ ãb ç áb ï| Ý  àx ï á ñ ãt ï ßp ¤  ¥ ü þÝ ñB ã| á g à d î Ã ì áb£¢ êB ã8 Þ áG  & á  ã üm| Ý ³ à t á ñ¼ ã ú¤ Ý  Ýe ÿ| ã  áb ï& å F ü H ä S8 t þb â å s 6 & r " â»w ê 8 þ át ü ß¦ üx ï á â ï å »á7 ë t á ñi ã b á £¾ê ë â ey ¤ þ á ãt å »ßb ë å¥ ¢ á æ â¾x  ê5 á§    ü8 ï á â ï8 å á¾ ë  á ñ ãÐ8 âx á áe ÿB ã5 ár   B át Þ8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê þ  á ñ ã»â¤ ê  ü »á¾êë ¨£ ë¡   åt¡    Ý ï û x ï á ÿt ü âw å  á ñ ãHx ïm á¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý¨ ñ ç û ßB ã á) ü ë¦ å ãm8 â| á »à êx ï5 á ûB íá ãx X â áx ï á ¦ êj þ  ïm ß Ý Ý ã áßj þ  ü »ãë ß ü á ïiá ñã  á ï åI û m àB Ý Þ ¦¨ ë ã Þ á ¾ïêþ ã b Ý â â8 åj Þ áÑv  ¥ ¤ ¦ üx ï á ñ ãj Ý  á ñÑ ã  þI á  à ïb±Ý úx ï5 á û ãb ßÑ Ý ¦¨ ëm ã8 â á ã ¾ü êt ü âmB ÝÞ ï8á â ïb8 å ¾áë áâbÝ ÝÒ â ãt å ñ ã æ¾â ê ãx å Þ¹ êt þ ¾âê Vç & " ¤b  ëå B ãá þm  ï Ý±¼ ú ÿ åÂ ïî  úÝ  ü »ãë ß8 ü áÆ ï t üb ß Ý¾ês¥ ¢  á ïû á ñã  ãb ï5 Ý û û ßA ü b ã Ýâ ÝÅ þ  ü »ã ë ß8 ü áÅ ï ïm ß Ý ¨%G ñ ÿAt æ â» êx ï á¹þ êt üb âx ÝÞ  ñ ã ïb Ý ÿ3¹üêyãy i ¤» ëb ë å¨b ú Ý ã üm ïÂ Ý ÿ át ñã þ8| á  à ïb±Ý úx ï5 á û üb á6 ¨ å¼f t ám¦ ¢b ê åd@  t þ âbi å X ã8 â á ã ü¾ êt üb âx Ýt Þ ¾âd ê üm åH ÿ  ïb ß Ý5 
¤   ¥¢ ¡  

m3 9 u j ¤vg  f 7hu # ¤vg m $3u  j ¤vg  fu ¦ j ¤vg % j ¥ u j ¤vg ¡ 7  m ¤vg ¡ 7 ¥ 7 ¤vg 7 m ¤vg 

¶b

§¤ £    

7 h

ã8 ü á ì âb¾Ý ê ã å¹þ»êb ë åS x ï ád ü e 0 7 ï8 á ü¤e

9 %  # mI ¤ g j  #I 3 ¤ g ¥ 3 # jI ¤ g ¥  # 7I ¤ g f3 j jI ¤ g   mI ¤ g ¥  jI ¤ g m  jI ¡ ¤ g

¶m

© ¤   ¦ £  

m $3u h $I ¤ g f $ 7I ¤ g #3¥ u $I ¤ g  j¡u $I ¤ g $ g3¥ I % ¤ g ¥  7I ¤ g  9¡j I ¤ g mu $I ¤ g m h

ï 8 á¤ ü E e ñ¦m Þ) å èm ï Ý±ú ü »ã ë ß üG á  x ï á â ï å á7 ò ¾áëb æ â¾s ê { m á¾ ë  ¡ åì ¶m ¶ m ¶m ¶ b ¶ m
£ ¥ §  £¦   § £ ©    ©   ©   ¡¨§   ¦ £  

£¥¤ £ ¢ ¡  

ã8  ü á ì âb¾Ý ê ã å¹þ»êb ë åS ï8 á¤ ü e m 8 h ï á¤ ü e

#3 j I ¤ g 7 #% I h ¤ g 9  u ¡ $I ¤ g m g3 I ¡ ¤ g $ g3¥ I % ¤ g fv¥ # I ¤ g ¥ % 9 7I ¤ g #%7¡ I ¤ g

$%93m I ¤ g $%¥ m I ¤ g 7 %  m 7I ¤ g 9 $m I h ¤ g  % g 7I ¤ g j   $ 7I ¤ g $ 7 #I ¤ g g%7 I ¤ g



# 2

ã8  ü áì b â Ý¾ ê ã å¾þê¾ ë åS ï8 á¤ ü e # x b ï ád ü e

m $%m v h ¤ g j  mv 3 ¤ g #  mv 3 ¤ g fv¨  f£v ¤ g $¡$%m v ¤ g gv ¤ g  j3g v ¤ g 93¥ 7 f£v ¤ g

# u ¡ $I ¤ g $%3 9 I ¤ g m fu  $I ¤ g ¥ ¡ j u $I ¤ g 7 9 u $I ¤ g jQfu $I ¤ g 9 fu  $I ¤ g g¡j I ¤ g



f 

ã8  ü áì b â ¾Ý ê ãt å ¾þê¾ ë åS ï8 á ü¤e f x Q ï ád ü e

$  ¤vg 7 v  f  ¤vg fv3 #  ¤vg #   ¤vg % ¥   ¤vg j  ¤vg 3 $¡ g  ¤vg $%Q j £ f ¤vg

¶b

â Ý b ï ãx ûB á¦ Þ ïxá¨¡ î
t  j 7¤  #  S 8 f r S 8 g3m  '  © j  '  © f  '  ©

s



ä¤ ä¤

ï át x âb ï8 å áò

ë  åX ã8 â áI¾à êx ï5 á ûsx íá â   ¤ üm¾ Ý ëb ß5 Ýb û Ý ïs% ¨  û ¤ Æ î t þb â åüm Ýâ éÍ ê ï þtb â åtÂ ñ` îr ¤ © 8 ç üb¹å ê¦ ü ãb ßi Ý A ©  ¤ B d 8 ç üm¾Ýëb ß5 Ýb û Ý ü ãb ß Ý ït þâ b ¤ ' y G & ¦ f" x # õ#  #c # ¨ ¤ ãm Q ï Ýût û ß¤ ü ï»8 ê á ñ¼ ã ïm±Ý¨ úy ¤  þ ã@ ò îo  i î  ä5 î ç¤ î o î  üx ãb áh   ïF å ä  ë å »ãêb û å îi á ñ ã I   ât å ñi ã  Ýw ã b á £»ê ë ¾þt ëb ß ÝI ÿ ïm Ý ñ ã ßÃ å e ã¦ üt ïw ý á¼ ñì  õ # T S#5x ÷¢ #  § ¦ ö õ ¥ ¤ @   £ ¤ b  â ¾Ý ê ã8 å Þ ý» ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ ë»b ê| å àyB é áR¹Þ ê ãg å àm Ý ãb ß7 å b ï Ý±G ú ü á¦ ñb ÞX å Ýt ï û ûÃ å  á ñ) ã úb Ý b â Ý¾ ê ãt å ¾ß ë å¥ ¢ á ãX8 â á ãü¾ ê ütb âx Ý Þ  æ â¾G ê ÿ »Ýë¾ ë å  å ïm Ý û ïbx Ý Þ¼¾ë êg å yàB é áuh  ïg å  à¦ ñ Þt8 â á   b ï Ý±ú þx á áw â  á ñ& ã g ü  àt ï ý âmB ÝÃ Þ x ït á ñ ã ï±ßI ú x ï5 á ût åI û ¹ü ê ñ ã »âu ê h  b ï Ýÿ  á ñã b ç £¨ë»b ë åt»âD ê p I ¤  å ïm Ý û ïbx Ý) Þ á ïm| Ý  à b â` Ý üm8 å á ¹þx ê ï ßmx Ý ã8 ü ái ã b âx å Þ) áx ÿ ãt å ñã Ý  ü çë¾ êg å 8 àx á ú Ým ãt âb ß| Ý  à åHb á æ ï ¹å7 ë å¤m á ¦¢ê8B á Þ á ï¼ ãt å ñÂ ã ü8 ï át üß m à Ý ï±ú üt ñ ãXb â| Ý ) àb ú Ý¤8 ï áf   às ß³ â åi ât å ûi ü  ãt å ñ ãd¹ü»ëb ê| å yàéB áb ú Ýd¦ üB ã áb ü¦ å ã åþ B ã8 Þ ¾á»ëëmB Ý Þ  Ý| ã áb£»ê¤ ë  Ý ¹ü ëu å ¾þt ëb ß ÝÃ ÿ i á §   ¤ | ü 8 à »át ë¡    Ý ï¤ û  æ â¾»êë| û b à åü Ý¼  ãm ã âb å ãü¾ ê8 ü ái ï  ám ï| Ý 7 à  á§   ¹ þ ëb ßt Ý ñw ü ¦ ñb Þ åm Ý ï ûb û å ¹üê ñ ã üm åh & r " » âê þ á  £ êx ï Þ ü á þ x ï áe ã ü áã  ÿ Ýt þ â»G êw ÿ  æ â¾ ê ¹þ»ê ëg ü  á ñ ãb ú| Ý  át ü| ß á ñ³ ã t æ »âê  éb ï ¾Ýë ûB íÅ á  ñ ãb ï Ý ÿ áA   ¹ þ ë ßb Ý¤ ÿ Íãêu¾áë   8 à át ü8 â á á ñÑ ã á¾â| ê  à8 ï áã é B á þÃ ÝÂ ì ¤ ü þ Ý ñx ã| á ³ à  þ á ã8 å ¾Þ êe ã ¹ü ê ñm û Ý ü  áb ï| Ý g à æâ¾ ê ü& ß ¦ åb ï5 Ý ûm ïB ÝÞ á 8 át ï ñ ãx ï á ñ ã ÝH á ñÂ ã ïb±ÝÃ ú 8 þ á ã8 Þ ¾áx ë á ü  áe   ¾ þ ë ßmB ÝÃ Þ âm»Ý ê ã å ¾ü¾ê ë¦ åx ï á8 â ábæ ï x á ãB ã á5r    ñ »ãG ê¨ ÿ8 ü ¾áë   8 à á üx â á¼b á ¢ » á ê¾x ë5 á   ái  ¤v¦ åb ï5 Ý û ïmB Ý Þ ïm ß Ý±ú¼ á ñã új  Ý  á âbÄ Ý b â Ý³x át Þ âg å  à ïb±Ý úx ï5 á ûb â Ý¾ ê ãx å Þ »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þi æ »âêsh ¢  Ý ï| û à»Ä ê »âê ë±ßúe ü8 üx áx Þ Þt ßd ü üm å¤ ÿ ¦ ñ Þmåm Ý ï û ûb¤ å ¹üê¼ ñ¤ ì  ¤ ü¦x ï á þ¹b ë ±Ýú¤m ã8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê þib ï Ý±ú üx ¦ ï át â ïb8 å ¾á¨ ëX ã8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ ê% þ8 ü át ü ß% ã å ñ ã »át ë   x à át ü8 âR á b âi å t æ »â| ê  àb ï Ý±D úb ï Ý±ú ñ ÞbX ¦ å Ý ï ût û åB ã8 Þ ¾áx ë á üH þ â å ã ü8 á ã¼¤ å þ á ïm»Ýt ës ûx íG á Ý ¹ü ë% åm á6 ¢ åt ñÑ á  ¤ © 3 ¨Í ã ê¾»ët ê    å ã ßx ï Þ| ü æ¾âB ê Þ »ý êx ïb Þ åd ü  ã ßbt Ý ñ »ãG êA ÿ  à ñ »ã ê ïmÝb¾æ ëå  d  Ý s  ÿ Ý ï ¹þ@ ê   á ñ7 ã b ú Ý x át Þ âg å  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á³ û b ï Ý¾ êx ï5 á û ß üu á ñ7 ã  úÝ ám æ å ãXb â åv ¢ þb³ å m á   åu ã âbx å Þ³ áR ÿ t ü ßsñ¼ ì i¤ & 7" 6 & " 8 üt á ßmU}êâ¦ ñ Þ áã þ ám ü åt  »áë ß@ ï  æ â¾ ê ü ß 8 â áG ñ ÿ  âx å Þ  á3 ÿ 6 ¨ å¼Ñ ÿ | á àb å ü á ñ ã »âê ütb â Ý¾ ê ¹üêB Þ áu þ âb¾Ý ê ã8 å Þ »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ëI Þ b ï Ý±úHt üm â Ý üm8 å áÃ ï á ñ7 ã x ï át üÃ ß  á ñ¤ ã  Ýã á  ã8 å Þ¾ ê âtß&| à b àx ÝÃ Þ  âx å ÞHÂ ás ÿ yç6 & ¡ g m"  üh  b ï Ýe ÿ ãB á5 â ë¦ å ïx ßt á| â 8 þ á â¾ ê¦ å ïã b à Ý ï± ú8 ü áX ß U}ê â ñ¦ Þ áj ã âb¾Ý ê ã Þm å ï ãsB íi á »át ë ß| ï  æ â¾ ê ü¤e ¥ ¤ ¦ üx ï át ü` ß ë¾ êg å x àá b ï Ý±ú á¾ ë    å þ â å ã ü¦x ï át þt â ßF áb þg å F à 5 á   â8 åÅ Þ   d Ý s¼ é ÿ Ý ï¹þ@ ê   b üå ñ Þt ¦ ßi ü  ü8 ï át»ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë Þb ë å ï8 ß ág â ¾áë| û à» ê üH8 ïb á ¢ Â á ÿ Ýx ñb ç á¾ ë   ¦ å ã ßx ï Þ ü »âê t æ â»8 ê á§   b üI å  ú¤ Ý X ãb ñ æm ß Ý ñÐ ã x â á Tãb ú Ýi á ïj å  ü8 ït á »ý ê üb ü ¹åB ë@ Þ h  b ï Ýe ÿB ã áâ ëå¦ ïx ßd á !  ¡ ¤ o f pr8 þ ám æ¦ åx ïb á6 ¢ Ñ å  Ýx ï ¾Þ| ê d à úbI Ý | ü  àx ï á ãÄâ¾³ ê x át Þ âg å  àb ï Ý±ú é8 ï áûHe ã ü á   á ñ ãw þb á ¢ » á ê¦ ñ Þm¸ å t à ñ »ã ê ïmb Ý ¾æ ëÑ å ¡  Ýs ¼ é ÿ Ý ï¾þ@ ê f   á ñã å ïb5 ¦ Ý ûm ïB ÝÃ Þ e ã ü á| ã  ï ßm±ÝI ú  ï ßbH Ý  ú ÝÄ¦ ñ Þm8 å á ¤ â 4 i¤»ëb êg å x àI á üB  ë å ß ¾þês¢ Íéêþt»âê âbi å b ï Ý±ú 8 ït á »ý ê ü üb¹åB ë3 Þ Å å æ»â ê þ¾¾ëê ß  b ï ±Ýú x ït á âb ï8 å á¾ ë b á ¢£ êã é8 Þ áG  j á ãeX üI Ý  à á ñã  ám ü Ýs Ý¦ ñ ÞÄ ÝÉ ã 8 þ át üF ß 5 á   £¨x ëm á ¢¦ ê ã Þ5 á¥  É á âbx åÞ þ Ý ñB ã| á  àB ã8 Þ ¾áx ë á7 ü t þb â¨ å ã8 ü áG ã% å ãt å ñi ã G â ÿ Ý ñD üb ü å ñ8 ï áb ût åx û ¹üê¼ ñì ¢  õe ö ù5x ( # e 3 ù © #  øG ø R ÷ õI   õe ö ùsd   øA   õ ö 7 ¤ |  ü 8 à »át ë¡    Ý ï| û æ»â¾ê ë| û  à åg ü  Ýã ãXâ¦ å ãe¹ü ê8 ü á ïF á ïm| Ý à³¹ü³ ê  ã å ñg ã  ü8 üx á Þ Ý ï@ û m â »Ý ê ã Þ »áë8 á ü ¾áëf   x à á ütx âá âbµ å b ï Ý±ú 8 þx át áâ  á ñA ã 8 ü á ã8 å Þ¾ ê þ »âê ü¾ ê ñ¼ì G ¤ h ~  ü »á ê ïbm Ýx æ á ãx åÞ ïb¾åëtB ß ¹Þ ê ã ït å¤ û ïm±Ý@ ú 8 þ á ã Þ »á8 ë á@ ü ¨£ ë ïb¾å ë ßmx æ ái ï  áx ï áu ÿ | á b à Ý ü¸3 ¤ ái ¤ ê±| ü8  ï á ñb ãÝ  â å ñµ ã »á ë  ¡ å ã ü¸ áb ï| Ý ¸ à  áb ï å¸¾á ëf   x à át üx âá  á ñ3 ã  úÝ ü¦x ï5 á   8 à| á à | á b à Ýü  ãt å ñã 8 þ á ã8 üm áb æ æ ßÆ ü übt å ñ ãt å ñã  ü »ã»êë ûü æ¾â ê ã8 ü á ã¤b â ¾Ý ê ã å¹þê»b ë åh ¢ 8 ¤ æ¾âê¾âê¦ å ï ã ãm8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ êþ  ñ »ãG ê ÿ b â ¾Ý ê ã åã éx  â| á »à êx ï5 á ûB í& á úbw Ý X ã âm ß| Ý  à å »ëb ëg å  à üÑ å  ám â Ýi þ m á6 ¢ t åu ñ i á  ¤  ¥ üB át Þ8 â á8 ï5 á ¦ êþ 8 þx át Þ ßt þ ¾âê ¾áë| û  à å ü t þ âI å ãTÍú ê ïR þ ã8 û áBt Þm âB ÝI Þ b ï ±Ýú!m à Ýs Ý ï& ü ü »á ë ¦ ñt ÞR ß  à b ü¼ åÿ áx  ï á ñ¤ ã b ü åw# x ï át ü ß ïb±ÝúD¾ëx ë á¤ ÿ 8 þm á0 m ï ÝÂF ÿ ¦ ñ Þmm å Ý ï û ûbÃ å á ñi ã  ã å ñã ¨8 ¦ ëb á £ê»¤ ë ¾üêHÍã¤ ê t ü ßs¼ ñ ìi¥ ¤ t ü ñX ãb â| Ý g à v j  Ý7 ã f m à Ý ±ïd ú  ü þ»Ý êx ï á5 û 8 ïb á ¢hÝ át b æ â¦ å ï)¹ü»ëb êg å Vàx ém á¨ B  ü8 ï á ü ßÂ8 ï á ñb ã Ý¤ á ñ% ã üm8 å áx ï áG ñs ÿb ç £¨ ë âmÃ Ý þ»Ý êx ï á5û  x ¥ á áÿ Â Ýe ÿj ã 7 å 8 ï áb¢hi Ý 8 þ áB ã8 Þ ¾á»ëm ëB Ý Þ m ü å ÿ ë¾ êg å 8 ài á üB f # x ï á üt7 ß  ã å ñã ãb B Þ lå¤ ú á ñ ã ¨    þB á¦ Þb ï Ý± ú â¾x ê á| ï ¹üg ê ¾üt ê ñ¼ ì  ¤  æ ¾â ê ãt ã ý8 ïb áh ¢ ¤ Ý á ñu ã  Ýã þ 8 á ã ß  £ ê ïX ãb âB ÝÃ Þ m áh ¢  Ý¡   w å t á ñG ã úÝÄ ñ ã5 Ýf    ãt å ñÑ ã £¨x ëm á ¦¾ê& ë  ãm ü| Ý & à ¹üê yãy ¤3| á »à êg ã ü¥  8 áÂ á# ÿ x ÿ á± ú  å â»w ê 8 ü ¾Þêm û Ý ã  á ü á ñÐ ã b âj Ý ¾ü¾ë êg å yàB éá  á ïb| Ý ¤ à ám¦¢8 êB á Þ á` ï ¾ë»ëG êG ÿ8 ï á ü ßHt á ñ ãÂt ü û å ñ8 ï á ûI é  æ ¾â»êt ëI û b à åü  ñ »ãG ê ÿ à ¾áë¡ x    Ý ïû Ð å 5 á  6 ¨ g å àÄ»ã ê b ï ÝÑ2 ~ ¦ ü ïx á ¹þëb±Ý@ ú át ñã  ú@ Ý  á ï ß ã åtâ ë¾ ë¦ åx ïb áh ¢  Ý á ñ ã t æ »âê âB ý á þ áÉ ï â»b êm åb æF å Þ¾t ê ûb ÝÃ ã ¾üt ê ñ ã b âÃ Ý ¾ü¾ë êg å yàB éá ¨ b % âg å  à b á ¢£x êB á Þ á ï x ïb á ¢ áÐ â 6 ¨ g å i à x ï át ü ß á ñ Tã| Tã»ú ê ïi þ  ã8 ûB át Þ âmB ÝÞ á  ß ï7 ã  Ý ãG á ß þd á  `x ï á ñ Íã8 ê| á ¾þëm ßB Ý Þ ü¹ ê¼ ñ¨ ì ¤¾ëë å ã å8 ü ¾Þ êm û ÝG ã á8 ü át ñã â| b Ý ¹ü¾ë êg å Vàx é á  ¨ âg å àÄ þb á £¢x ê áx8 Þ áj ï m á6 ¢ t åÃ ñ  ã Ý â ¨6g å g à 8 ï át ü¤ ß át ñã çB ã á üÂ ã8 ü á ã¼t á ñ7 ã  ¨    8 þ áx ïb áh ¢ x Ýg Þ þ»Ý êx ï5 áG û á ñ ãit æ »â ê ï ß þ çx ïm á¥ ¢  á ÿ Ý s ¤ ¹ ¥ ü ê ñ ã ¦ ü ã Þt á¡    áï 8 þ áB ã8 Þ á¾x ë áÒ ü »át ë   x à át ü8 âÒ á  á ñ# ã t þb âå x ü ¹Þêm û Ýã ¾â ê å ãx ïx á³ Þ  ãb ß5 Ý  g å ¹ü¾ë êg å Vàx é áHb úÃ Ý  ã ¾Ýëu å  þb á ¢£x êx á8 Þ áw ï m á6 ¢ t å ñ6 ¨ g å à ¾áë| û  à åíB¼ ám ï Ý±Â ú ï8 á üH ß t á ñs ã8 çx ã áü b â Ý¾ ê ã å þ¹»êb ë å¢  á ñ| ã  ¨    þ8 áx ïm á ¢hB ÝÞ á à¾ | ê¤ ã  úÉ Ý þ»Ý êx ï5 á¤ û á ñu ã t æ »â ê ï¤ ß 3 Û I ¤ æ¾ â »êt ëI û b à å ü úÝ x à ¾á ë¡    Ý ïû át ñ ã t þ âR å Tã»ú ê ï& þ  ãx ûx át Þ âbx Ýi Þ  ¨  8 þ á þ âb ß5 Ý û|b àB Ýi Þ ¦¨8 ë áb£»ê7 ë  ãm ü| Ý à ¹ü6 ê 8 à á» ë3    Ýt ï û ¾üê¼ ñ ì ¤¡¾áëf   x à át üx â á á ñ ã  ám üs Ý Ý¦ ñ Þ á ÿÅ8 â áG ñ ÿ x ã áü m â Ý» ê ã å ¹þ¾êë å8 ¢  á ñ ã æ¾â ê ã ã ý ï8b áh ¢ @ Ý  á ï å Â áÆ ÿ ¦¨ ë ï å »áÂ ëî ¤ ¾ ¡ á ë   8 à á üx âá x ï á ãB ã5 á  !É å  æ â» ê ã Þ »á8 ë á¤ ü ãb ß5 Ý   É å b Ý3 æ b âx åu Þ áÂÈ ÿ  ÿt Ý@ ñ þt â¤ å B ã áü ã8  ü ái ã  á ñ ã ïb±Ýi ú á¾ ë   8 à át ü8 â ád ã8 ü5 á'    á ñ ãb ã Ý âG¹ü ê B ã á¤ ü b â ¾Ý ê ãt å ¾þ¾ê ë å¢ t á ñi ã b ï Ý±Ã ú á» ëf   x à át üx â7 á  ã8 ü5 áe    á ñF ã ¨G ñD ÿ ç »âêb¾åëts ûx í¤ á  Ýu ã 8 â á ñi ã ¹üê á  ß ü ¾üI ê á¼ ñR ì G ¤ 3 ~ r m » át ë   D å lì |  ü8 ï á âb ï8 å á¾R ë ¾áëbt æ »â ê7 ü e ã ü á    á ñi ã  â å ñã x ï á ãB ã5 á   ¨£ ë   ¦ åx ï á¾þ êt ü âbx ÝÃ Þ 8 þ| á  àb ï Ý± úx ï5 á% û ~ 7 á¾ë   D å lì| 8 ü ¾á ë   8 à á üx âá á t ñ& ã  ãt å ñ ã x âx á áj ü 5 á  !b âx åg Þ Íãê¨t ç! 7 t þ âi å m ç # ¦ üx ï át üR ß b ï ±Ý& ú  üB ã áü âb¾Ý ê ã å¹þ»êb ë åq ¢ t á ñ ã b âÝ B át Þ âbg å  àm ï ±Ý ú8 ï á¤ û á ñ ãt æ »â ê ït å| û m àB ÝÄ Þ o ¨ t ¤QB ã áü b â Ý¾ ê ã å þ¾ê¾ ë å! ¢ t á ñ| ã ú Ý ¾ü êb üt å   á ñã m â Ý8 â áX ü Ý¦ ñÐ Þ æ¾âx ê á5  ã b Ý â¤ á ïG å ü »át ë   x à át ü8 âj á ¦ ñt Þ ß ü¼x ïb á ¢ Â á ÿt ÝX ñB ç2 ~ 8 ï á â ï8 å ¾áH ë I á b à å7 ü át ñã à b Ý ï±& ú 5 á  1¾ëëåi âx åH Þ ¦ üx ï5 á   x à| á R à »á ëf   x à át üx âI á  á ñ ã m ü låf | 8 ï á â ï8 å ¾áë ¾áb ë æ¾â ê ü¼ ã8 ü5 á   á ñÂ ã üb³ å þss Ým Ý æÂm ü¼ å ãb ü å »áë¼ ã¼ å ¹üG ê  ãt å ñd ã ¾á ë   8 à á üx âá âw  å B ã áj ü e ã ü á¤ ã t á ñ ã b âÝ  ám ü ÝsÝ¦ ñ ÞÄ Ý¤ ã ¾áë¦  ê üm ü Ý5g û ¾üw ê yãA y ¤I8 å á ¹þê á t ñ ã ñ »ãG êI ÿ X ã âx áx ït á ñ»âê à8»át ë¡    Ý ïÑ û É å  ñ ÍãG ê ÿ  â åt ñ ã çm â »Ý ê ã8 Þ ¾áx ë áü ¾áë   8 à á üx â% á ú Ý þÝ ñB ã| á & à á ñã  ñ »ãG êÃ ÿ ÝÃ þ  Ý ã  á ïm| Ý G à b üt å| ñ ¦ åb ï Ý5û  é ïbx Ý ÞHá ñ ã ú ÝHx á á ï ñÃ ã b âg Ý ¦ ñm Þm å Ý ï ûb û åit á ñ ãb ú¤ Ý  á ï¾ß»ëb ê låd ú  á¼ ñì ¤ x  7  þ â| å  m  ü ï8 á üj ß m â Ý ë ß± ú ü üB áx Þ Þ ßG ü ü8 ü ¾á ë üb¼ åj ÿ þ â å ' f x ï át üw ß âbÝ á B Þ âg å  àm ï Ý± ú8 ï áI û | á  à åg ü  á ñ ãHe ãX ü| Ý »àb ë åi þ á »âb ê å ã  3` Ý ç¾ë êg å yàB éH á üB # ï 8 á üg ß b â) Ý ~ s | x ï á â ï å á»d ë »ám ë æ»â ê ü ã8 ü5 á   á ñI ã  þI á  àb ï ±Ý úx ï5 á û ã ßbÝ ¾áë   8 à á üx â³ á t á ñ7 ã ãt å ñ ã 8 âx á á³ ü 5 ár   âx å| Þ Íã¨ ê ç7 t þ âF å f m 8 ü ¾á ë   åDì ¾âÃ ê B ã ág ü  ã8 ü áã  á ñ ãb â| Ý ¦ ü Íãt ë ß ü á ï á ñ ã æ¾â ê ï åt| û b à ÝxÄ Þ o ¨ t  ¤ B ã áü ã8  ü áj ã þt âF å m â »Ý ê ã å¹þ»êb ë å¢  á ñ ã âm Ý á»t ë   x à át ü8 â7 á b á £¢ êB ã8 Þ5 á û ü á7 ï át ñã ï Ý±Ñ m ú  á ï ß üb å| á  à o f 8 p 8 þm á æ¦ åx ïm á6 ¢  å  Ý ïB¹Þ| ê  à »ëb ë å8 ï ábh ¢  Ý t á ñã  ñ »ãG ê ÿ ï8á ñx ãb á æb Ý) ã çB ã áÉ ü âm»Ý ê ã å þ¹ê¾ ë åq ¢  á ñ ãb âw Ý B á Þ âg å  àm ï ±Ý ú ï8 ág û ¾ïx ê át ñã
7 ¡  # u jv ¤ g ¥ ¥ $v ¤ g ¡ 7  g juv ¤ g v ¤ g

ãe üx á ì âm»Ý ê ã å ¹þê»b ë åS

¥

ï ád x ü e ñ¦b ÞÂ å è b ï Ý±G úx ãs á e ã üx á ìwt þ âbåwm â Ý» ê ã å ¹þ»êb ë åS âb¼ Ý ü ã» ë ß8 ü áG o f § p t þ âG å ü »át ë   x à át ü) â¨ è  7 »áë¡    åì j #% I ¡ ¤ g & s  çmr f ä¤' S & ç s & ç s & ç s  ç& çH 7 ç b ç ç b ç7  ç & ç & ç " ¥ j%¥ I ¤ g & s  çmr f ä¤' S çm ä¤ 7 ç  ç ä¤  ç ¢îb ç äH 7 ç ç & ç " m  h $ 7I ¤ g ç H  ä çb H ä m ç ä¤ t ç ç î"  ç äH b ç H ä & ç " »áë x à át ü âè
¥ ¥ I ¤ g

s  t  s   f  '  ©  f  '  © s  j  '  © s  s fr 8 Su s   # S u juI 8 ¤ 7 r f Su s  j  ' 8  © s & s    # S8u r f S8 fr ' S ¡ g m  '  © j ¤ 7   # Sur 8 f S8 s f  

& s 

7 0 m h # 2 f

ï8 á¤ ü e ï8 á¤ ü e ï8 á¤ ü e ï8 á¤ ü e ï8 á¤ ü e

A

¤I¡ m g¡¡ g  #  ç¦ « «  ¬g ² ¯T) ¨ »Ëg ¶ I £  £ F ¢ ¿d    ¤ 8 ü á¾ ëf   x à át üx âá m 0 ïÂ Ý ÿex ã á âRb ë åt ïx ß ág â 8 þ á¾â ê¦ å ï ã àm Ý ï± ú 8 ü ¾áë ßÄ ï ¹Þ»êëm Ýf   s à( ¨ü æ¾â êB ãb Þ¦ å ïs ã í%3 è  ¤ x â áÂ ñ îy ¤  þ â å æ â ¹åêm` d f ¤ d a  çb ßt Ý5 ñQ U5 ¤ U &hg3m " ¤ 93¡ v 9  9 5 f  ç  ¦ ` ¶b ²x ² Ë c b P5 ¶Â ¯ Ë P¶x    §x  l ¨ ¬x °d  ¦  ¯ l¨V°g §  £ ¬B  ¥ ¯ ¿F ¤ b â Ý¾ ê ã8 å ¾ð ê ïmb Ý8 æ á ã8 å| Þ s ãx í á¤ ã  Ý ã 8 üt á ñ¦b Þ åm Ý ïû  é û å ëbx å ¹Þ ê ã ¾ü ê ã å ãD ü úbj Ý m â »Ý ê ãt å ß¾ ë å ¢ w á â I ¤ æb â) åF a æ» â| ê ¾àê¤ah & ¡ 9 #" v ¤ g3¡ g  g #Ix ç â âg å ±à ú ßb å ©  âX å æm ï¤ Ý Â ä| ¶ ¢£   ²B £& ¿  §  §` Y T  T°¨%© B « tB ¡ 1 ¨ ¯s¦  ª    ½ ¯³ § «  8   s ® T¯t ¨ ¯ ¬ §¦  5  T¯¨s¦ b ª § % ·  ¦ § ªl¨° x ¦ ªb § ¬ ¤ ¦³s ® T¯t ¨ ¯T¤ ¨ Ã · y§ °§   g ¤ vb â åt ïI p ¤ ¤ è  þ â åFx â á ã »ã@ ê I  b ¤ y h & ¥ #" ¤  3 I 9  9 5 f  ç  ¦ G ©  ¶b ²` ² Ëd ¿ Ï0 ¢ } â y i¤¾ë êg å x à¨ á úÝ ãXx â| á à8b á æ å âg å 3 à âb¾Ý ê ãg å  à ïmÝ± ú »âêH ë åb â Ý ü8 ï á û t æ »â êb ï Ý¾ ë û í%è m þ åm¾Ý ë8 ïb áh ¢ ¨ Ý ë¾ êg å  à| è  ¤ 8 ï á â ¹þs ê ¤ ît þ â å x ï ám  ¦ å ã »ã ê@ ñ g ¤ Q & % $ #"
£  ¥  ¦ §     ¨ £  §  ¡¢ ¤ 

¤ $ ¡ 9 Q 9 1 f çm  ¦ P ¶` ² Ë P P ¶ Â Ë¦ 5 ªx ¯X  Í®¢¨T B  } t °B ¯¿  l§B ¨ ªÁ ¨ °¤ ¬ F   ¦ ½ l¢¨5  m ²Â ²   ¡ ¤ x á Þblå úx ï áX ã â¾ êX ã8 âb á æ å ë»b ê| å I à å »â¼ ê üá ß  ü ¹üêit æ »â ê â ï å »áëi ú Ý b â Ý¾ ê ãm å æ¾ ê ã8 üb á ¢ â¾ ê â   â ï8 å ¾ág ë  ãt å ñã ü ãm8 ¦ âb áb æ å B ám Þ ål ú8 ï áX ã} âA y  ¤  ü¦ þ ï å¼ ÿ þ) è¤¡ t þ â åFt áX â6 ¨ å%¡ ¤ 7 ì 6 & Q j ¦ f" ¤ ¥ ¡ I 9 Q 9 f1b ç  ¦ ` ¶m ²² ¯lV¨ ° § ED ¨ ¬X  y®y°% §C ¢ m °B At 7  ¬B  ¥X ® ¯Tt ¨ ¯ ¬¦ §x @  ¯¤   ²   « À ¬¤  Î ¦  ¿  ! "9   } â y v ¤  à¦ åb ïm æ Ýt ïÃ û âb¾Ý ê ã8 å ð¾ ê âX å æm ïÝ  8 m â »Ý ê ã8 å Þý é» ê üb ü ¹åB ëÞ  à å û ü   ûbx Ý| Þ b àt ås û 3 ¤ » âx ê8 òf ¤  Û t þ âb å8 ë áX ã â% å¦ ¡ ¤ ¡  & ¥ 7 ¦ f"
  ¤

 ¨ ¥ £ 

¡



b ç ¨ á»¾ ë ê@  h ¤  ´ ¬¦    wX ® T¯t ¨ ¯ ¬¦ §x  X   § lªV¨ ° ¹«¨ ° y§° U B ¤ £  ê âb û å@ S ¤ S h &  #" ¤ ¡ I g g3 g  #  ç Ei î   t òb ¤ R « B £}  ° «´U ¬Â x  Á ¨¦ « « §¾D   ¢W»   ² ¨¢°  ¤ ¡ · ¯  ²   « À ¬¤  Å Î y¶ ° ¯ ¿¦ °¦ « T¬¨)D â}5 y  ¤ âm» Ý ê ãt å ¾âê   m àB Ý Þ ¾áë   8 à át ü8 â| á  ÝÃ ã ñ¦m Þ åm Ý ï ûb û¼ å% l  ã Þ á»8 ë áü t þ âbåw ã8 ü á ã k t á¼ ñg ì ¤¡ ¨ b áh   ït å ñs¤ Ð è t þ â å ¥ ¨ ám0  ïbt å ñs ¤  6 & 3 j #" ¤v3 9 9¡ 9 5 f b ç ¦ V © ¶`m ² ²t¦ Ë «t °x ¯ mÂ ®U   «s ¡g   £  ¯}  °¤ ¡     ¯¨ B ¶8 ¥ ¯ ( ¢ } ¶t °B ¯7 ¿ m ½ â}v y i ¤» ëb êg å Vàx éw á t æ »â8 ê »ðêb âm å æb ï7 Ý m ï Ý± ú X ã â å ã ¹ü ê ü üb| å ãm8 â áb¾æ»êë¾x ë áX ã »âê â  ¦   ã8 å Þ¾¾ë ê åFä Q ¤  ãb ït å ñx û ái3 © r ¤ äÈt þb âi å  ëX åx æs á q' ¤ '   &  7 #" ¤ #3¡ v g g¡g # 8 çT ©  ¦ P` ¶b ² ² Ë P5 ¶ ¯ Ë  ¶ Ë «x ¦ ´   ¬¡U X ® ¯TV¨ °5 ¡d ²  £ S ¢ D ·£ ¢  R ¤ b â ¾Ý ê ã8 å ¾ð êm ï Ýb8 æ á ã8 å ÞX ãx í áã þ  á ãg å m à Ý ãb ßj å ¾â& ê æ¾â ê â ï8 å á¾H ë á»ât ê¦ ñb Þ åFx ä i¤ êb â å¾ êe ã ümt å¥   ásI¤o' p h & ¡ m #" ¤ fv3 ¡ g  g  # ç ¦ ` ¶b ² ²Ë¤!  ¡ T ¯7 ¨  « ½  ±B °  ·    §¦lª ¨ T¬¨5d ²  £¢  ¯  ¶B ¥ ¯ Q ¢ ±  ° } â' y ¤¾ ë êg å yàéB) áb új Ý æ¾â êx ï á »ãt ëý àt  å û yü»é êX ãb â³ å ïb±ÝI ú ¦ üx ït á »ý ê üm ü å¾x ë Þut æ »âs ê2  Þb¦ åX ã A ¤ m ü Ý¾ ëb ß Ý5b û Ý ãå éRàb å ãX ¤ ¡ t þ â å üX»Ý ë ßm Ý ûm Ý ïs ¨ ûs ¤ D îx ç ¹ü ê üB ã á¾ ë åh   ï å © ¤ S ç8üb¦ å ï ßb¾Ý¾ê ë å%¡  ¤ 6C8 çm ü Ý¾ ë ßm Ý ûm Ý¦ ü ãb ß Ý ït þâ b ¤ y 8 ç ¾üês   å { ¤  6 6 & 3 # #" ¤v¥ 9¡ 9 5 f t ç ¯ l¨ ° § ED ¨ ¬ XV®}  ° §! ¢ °bB A j   ¬B  ¥HX ® ¯T¨ ¦t ¯ ¬¦ §x 5   ¯  ²   « À ¬¤   Î  ¦d ¿ "   "   P   } âB y i ¤ ë¾ êg å Vàx ég á v   âe ßw ætâ» êx ï á ãÍëtF ý  ÝÑ ã ¦ ñb ÞX å Ý ït û û å â ¹å ê üb á6 ¨ t å    ¤¡ ð »ãês0 ¢ ïmÝs ¤ è þtb âå  âg å  àx ï áb2   Þ á' s f ¤ R Û 8 ç ü¾b ê| å t àd ß  Û g ¤ r ç| ê  à å ñ å ¤r ä G & v f #" ¤ g3¡ v g  g B # t ç ¯}  ° «¤  ¦5 Ë ²   « À ¬¤   Î X ® ¯Tt ¨ ¯T¤ ¨ · b °B A w  ¦     ` } â y I ¤ æ¾ â ê8 ï á »ãt ë ý ¾ë êg å yàéB á  ÝH ã æ¾âê â ï å»áë átâ» ê¦ ñ Þmg å 7 à  ú@ Ý b â Ý¾ ê ãx å ¹Þ»êt ë û ûÐ å â   á¾t ë ý»g ê ¡ ¤ ¾ á ê â8 â áGE  I ¤ ' d h & ¡ g #" ¤v¡ m 3 9  9 y f  çt â âg å à± ú ß å 3 ©  âX å æm ï¤ Ý ä)¡ ¤ X ® T¯¨t ¯ ¬¦ §x  5  ¯T ¨  ªm § R ·  ¬B Â ¥R « R £  £ § ¬ ®  ¬ ¤ HI  ¶ % ¢  ¤  â ¹åë¾âê¤ ß ¢' ¤ I ¤ ' d &h9Qx f" ¤ ¡ v 9 93 9  f V ç ë¾ êg å x àD á ú Ýwb â ¾Ý ê ã8 å Þ »ý ê üb ü å¹B ëÞ ¾âê æ â¾ ê â ï å »áyëB é á¾ ë ßÂ ï ¤  ü ¢ 8 ü ám6 ¨ t å i x éb á £¢ ê å¤  ¤  ãm ü Ýmh ¢  Ý ï)¡ I ¤ ' d &h¥¦x f" ¤v3 g ¥  9 5 f x çG © P ¦ P` ¶b ² ² Ë 5 ¶ ¯ Ë P ¶) R Ë £ § ¬ ® ¬ ¤ ¤ æ ¾âb ê æ¾â ê ïe ãu ü | í  )  ß7 ü m ï Ý±È ú à ñ Íã êb ï Ým»æb ëu å â  Q ¤ x ï á ã ïm¨ Ý ¡ ¤r ä &Q$hxf" ¤ ¥ ¡ I 9 9Q f b çX ® T¯¨t ¯ ¬¦ §x   ¬ }x ° ª 5X W  ° ¬t b ² ²¡ U ¦i «8 ½t  Tx °  ` ·x  5  ¯x ¬  ` ¯Ti ¨ B «¦ 5 ª ¯ §  ½d  b â ¾Ý ê ã8 å ð¾I ê à¾ ê ãb ûx Ýb ëg å à» ê ¾â| ê  à ë ¹å êX ã8 â áX ß }  á³ ü æ¾â êt üd ß 8 ü á¾âê¦ ñÞ ég å ¤ à ïm Ý ãB8 Þb á' ¢  ãb ï5 Ý û û ßÂ ü úw Ý æ¾âê¾â ê¦ å ïi ã e ãm üt å p Q ¤  ã ã å¾) ë¡I ¤ ' d &h¦x f"
¥£§ ¡   ©¢ © ¦     § © © § £ ¦ ¡ £  §  §¥   ¨       ©   ¤  §¤   ¦ ©

¤v¥ 93 9 f

Vçë»¾ëês ¼ é ÿ¦ åH ï 7 6F Þ äD ¤ s ® ¯Tt ¨ ¯ ¬¦ § !    T¯¨s¦ b ª §  · i¤»ë8 ë á¦ ñ Þ »ã¤ ê s ä¤ 7 ì h &  m ¦ f"  ¤  7 9¡Q 9 f  ç  ¦P  ¶b ² ²B Ë '©¶¯ Ë ©  x ¶ iË D ·£ ¢ 5   t  Tj ° e ¥ ig ¶ R £  £% 4 ¢ y ¤ b þ åX»Ý ëx ïm áh ¢ Ä Ý m â »Ý ê ãg å à  é ïb±Ýú»â¤ ê  þ â¤ å 0 m ïÂ ÝI ÿ B á Þ ß8 þ áH ï ãt å ñ ã¤¦ ü ãm8 âb áæ  ¥ ¤  ü áF å  ä¤¡ 6 & Q # ¦ f" ¤   7 93 9 f  ç( P P ¦ P ¶b ² ²Â& « x £ y ° « ´ U ®sT¯¨ ° ¡ ² £ 3 ¢ T ¯¨ « ¦ ¬} B ° ªmx §D  ¯g § £ ¡ Ï ¯¤  B ¶8 ¥ ¯ 2 ¢ Çd ¿  Ï1 ¢ } ât y  ¤ 8 ïb áh  b ï Ýÿ ábæ8 þ ¾áG ë ÿ Ýâs   á ñ3 ã âmF Ý  áb ïj å  üh   ïg å Ñ à á¼ ñ ìAy ¤  þ ¹þi ê 0 © ¤  G & ¡ f ¦ f" ¤ ¥ ¡ v 9  9  f  ç ®sT¯¨t ¯ ¬¦ §   T¯ 5 ¨  ªm§Fi ·  ¯ ÂB ¶8 ¥ ¯%  ¢0 ¯¦ §t  ²  ¬ ¡ ¢ ± ° P } â{ y ¥ ¤  ü át ï ß ã å ±áú ã X â å¥ ¢ á¾x ë á ï ¨âg å I à  ñ »ãG êd ÿ æ¾âê â ï8 åx áx ò¨  8 ü á¾âê¦ ñb Þg å àDb ï Ý ã8 Þm á¢  ãb ï5 Ý û û ßR ü  ñ ÍãG ê ÿib â ¾Ý ê ã8 å ¾ð ê ïmb Ý8 æ á ã8 å¨ Þ ãsx íx áX ì¥ ¤ g ü ¾à ê¦ ñb ÞX åb Ý6 d ¤ 7 ì h &  g ¦ f" ¤ I ¡ f 9¡Q 9 y f b ç¥ ¨ á¾ ë8 üÑ á i ém â Ý ¹ü ê þþ  ¤I ¯ lV¨ °} § °5 ¡d ²  £ ) ¢   § ¬x ¡&  ¡e ¥Ã   ´ ¬ t  Ã    ±& ° } °  ¯ lV¨°Bt ª ¡½ ¦  V¬t °B ¯¿ Q ¤ ïx| á à»b ë% å9 ¡ ' ¤  t þb â å ñmb æ Ýi ï ©9¤  çb ð ã8 ï á s  ¤ d h & 9" ¤v¥ 3 9  9 fB çb â Ý¾ ê ã8 å ð¾ ê ïmb Ý8 æ á ã8 å Þds ãB í á¼ ãm ï ±ÝúÂt üb â ¾Ý ê ã åX ãx â á8 ü áï éx  û á¤ ï t þ â å¤g ü  à ñ »ã êm ï Ýb¾æ ë³ å t æ »âê â ï å »áR ë b á ¢£ êB ãt Þ ßt þ} â y ¤| ê b àt åñ  é å¡r ¤ I ä t þ âI å âg å  àx ï áb2   Þ á¡ s f ¤ b Û ç ã ã å¹ ë ¡ ¤ 3 d 8 ç ¹ü êg å à¤ ß  Ûg ¤ h & ¥" ¤ v 3 f g¡¡ g  #  ç  ¦  ¶b ² ² Ë ¶¯ Ë   ¶É   « ¯ lV¨x ° ªb § ¬xy ° ¯¿  ¤ ãXx â| á 8 àb á æ å âg å à m â »Ý ê ãg å  à ïb±Ý ú ¾âê ët b å âb Ý ü8 ï áj û 8 þ á þ8 þ5 á   8 à á ú³ Ý b â Ý¾ ê ã¦ å ïb¾Ý ë ûB íw á  â å%¦   ã å »ãê¡   t åñ üR m å ë¾ êg å yàé%è i¤ ê ã ã Ý¾»ë8 ë át f ¤ S t þb â åu ãb ß8 å á â8 á¦ ñt Þ¤ ß H Û  ¤  Q & u $" ¤#%¡ g ¡ g B # ç¨  D ·¥ ¢ ¿ ËX ® ¯T ¨ ¯ ¬¦ §   5T ¯s ¨¦ b ª §¤ ·  ¯ ¶ B ¥ ¯ ( ¢ } ¶t °B ¯g ¿ ± ° ! P }â y Q ¤ x ï á ã ïm Ý` ü ë¾ êg å x àG áX ãx â ám»æ¾ê»ëë8 á ãX¾â¤ ê  á ñã é)g ü x à} á y  ¤  ñ ã å áÂ ï îF Þ äs¤ Ã è t þb âI å 6 ¨  å © ¤ 3 d ` ç¦ þb ï ±Ý¼ ú ÿ¦ åÂ ï î¤ 7 è h & " ¤v¥ 9¡Q 9 1 f b ç ¦ '©` ¶ ²mi ² 5 ¶j ¯ ) P ¶  ·D£ ¢    t  Ti °  ¥ ¶ R g £  £%  ¢&% $ b àt å ûsE¤v¹å ê¦ ñx Þ ÞmF å b ä å ò¤ q t t þ â å m ï Ý â¦ åÂ ï î` ¤ 7 ò 6 & j"
  ©¢  ¦  ¦ ¤ ¡ ¤ £ ©     § £  ¥   ¦ §    ¤ ¥£ ©  ¦ ©

¤ $%¡  9 Q 9 f

¤ 

ç   ¦ P  ¶b ²j ² ¦ Ë «B «¦ ¦ ªd ª  # ¯ lV¨°g §  £ ¬B 8 ¥B ¯g ¿ ¯T¨ ®sT¯¨t ¯ ¬¦ §   T¯¨ 5  ªmF § ³ ·  ¯ A £ ¡T ¨ «t  ² £´ U ®sT¯ ¨5 ¬²U  ¿  "!     } â yi¤¾ë êg å à x é á ¨Íú ê üb ü ¹åB ë ÞÄ ã å ñi ã 8 ü á¾ ë ßÅ ï æ¾âê â ï å áò  ¤ x â ám ñÂ ÝR î ¤ '   & 7" ¤3fv¡ g ¡ g I # ç ¤ ¡ T ¯ ¨ B «  ª ¯ § ¤ ½     °B ¯¦ ¦ ªd   ¦  ¯ ¶B ¥ ¯  ¢ } ¶t ° ¯| ¿ ± ° }âB y  ¤  æ â¾ ê8 ï á »ãt ët ý ¾ëêg å 8 àg á  à å û} ü Íé ê ãX âÂ åm ï ±Ýú üx  á á ï ã æ¾â ê ã ümÝs Ýv t ¤¡x ðt ám ß2 }  ï å  ä{ ¤  ò  þ â å b ü¦ åx ï á ï ï å¨ îf ¤   h & m" I ¤ ¡ g 3 g  g  # çbX ® T¯ ¨ ¯ ¬¦ §x     ¯Ts ¨¦ b ª § F · ¯ B ¶8 ¥ ¯  ¢ } ¶t °B ¯¿ ±x ° ©P } ây  ¤ m â Ý» ê ãx å5 Þ ýÍ ê üm ü ¾åx ë| Þ ãsx í áI ã ïb±ÝÄ ú »âêb| å m à Ý¼ þ »ëb ê| å 8 àá t á ñ ã  ú Ý³8 üm á æx â á¾»ëëbt åÂ ñÆ î g ¤ ¥8 á¤ á G ä¤ Å î t þb â å æ ¹å ë ã ß ïo t  ¤ d 6 & #" ¤ ¡ I g g¡¡ g g # 8 ç © P ¦ P ¶²bt ²B ¶8 ¥ ¯ ¨ ¢ § ¦ ¿¥ ¤ ¿ U ·D£ ¢ ¡   y ¶ ° ¯R ¿  ½ ¬ } â1 y ¥ ¤  üb á æ å ü8 ü| á à ë¾ êg å yàB é5 á ët åm â Ý¦ ü ïx5 áw û  ñ »ãêG& ÿ  æ ¾â ê8 ï á »ãt ëý  à å û }üÍé êX ã âÃ å  þ ám üt å  ésþ¦b ï Ý ÿs¥ ¨ b á t þ âå  â å¹ ê8 üb á6 ¨  å!   áb£ ¢ êt åg â b ú Ý m â Ý ¹ü ê ït å| û b àx ÝÞ
¤  ¡ I 9 Q 9 f
£ ¤ © ¡¨   ¨ ¤ ¡ ¨

Information Extraction in the KELP Framework
Robert Dale, Marc Tilbrook Centre for Language Technology Macquarie University E-mail frdalejmarctg@ics.mq.edu.au Cecile Paris Intelligent Interactive Technology Research Group CSIRO Mathematical and Information Sciences Cecile.Paris@cmis.csiro.au

Abstract
located and tracked in texts other processing can then take the results of this process to build higher order data structures, establishing, for example, who did what to who and when. In this paper, we describe a new mechanism that relies on a hand-constructed knowledge template, along with a general inference mechanism we call path merging, to reconcile and combine the informational elements found in a text.

In this paper, we describe some early steps in a new approach to information extraction. The aim of the kelp project is to combine a variety of natural language processing techniques so that we can extract useful elements of information from a collection of documents and then re-present this information tailored to the needs of a speci c user. Our focus here is on how we can build richly structured data objects by extracting information from web pages as an example, we describe the extraction of information from web pages that describe laptop computers. A principle goal of this work is the separation of di erent components of the information extraction task so as to increase portability. Keywords Information extraction, natural language generation, document personalisation.

2 Background

1 Introduction
Information Extraction (ie 1] the process of identifying a pre-speci ed set of key data elements from a free-text data source) is widely recognised as one of the more successful spin-o technologies to come from the eld of natural language processing. The darpa-funded Message Understanding Conferences resulted in a number of systems that could extract from texts, with reasonable results, speci c information about complex events such as terrorist incidents or corporate takeovers. In each case, the task is manageable because (a) some other means has determined that the document being analysed falls within the target domain, and (b) the key information required is typically only a very small subset of the content of the document. A major component task is named entity recognition 3], whereby people, places and organizations are

The goal of the kelp1 project is to develop technology that can extract information from a collection of web pages that describe similar things, and then collate and re-present this information in such a way as for a user to make it easy to compare those things. Suppose you are interested in purchasing a new cell phone: you could check out a consumer magazine, or visit a web site that presents comparisons of the di erent available models, but those sources are typically not up-to-date. You might visit the manufacturers' web pages to obtain information from the original sources, but this is a painful, slow process, and comparison is hindered by the di erent terminology each vendor uses further, all these sources provide information for a `typical' visitor, rather than tailoring what they present to your particular needs and interests. In kelp, we aim to build technology that can mine the information from these source web pages, and then, using techniques we have discussed elsewhere (see 2]), re-present it in a form that is tailored to needs and interests captured in a speci c user pro le. Our initial experiments have been in the context of web pages that describe laptop computers. Based on an analysis of around 120 web
1 kelp stands for Knowledge Extraction and Linguistic Presentation, emphasising that the project is concerned both with document analysis and document production techniques. The kelp project is funded by CSIRO, whose support we gratefully acknowledge.

Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

<?xml version="1.0" ?> <laptop_info> <laptop_id> <manufacturer>NEC</manufacturer> <series>Versa</series> <model>Premium PIII 1GHz</model> </laptop_id> <components> <cpu> <cpu_type>Pentium III</cpu_type> <cpu_speed> <number>1</number> <unit>GHz</unit> </cpu_speed> </cpu> ... </laptop_info>

Figure 1: A portion of a lled knowledge object pages describing laptop computers, we developed a template that captures the range of information we might want to extract regarding a laptop computer, and then set about developing techniques to extract the relevant data from these web pages. Part of a typical lled template, or, as we call these structures within kelp, a knowledge object or ko, is shown in Figure 1. We have elided this structure to make it t the space available it should be obvious that the quantity and complexity of the data to be extracted is signi cant.

3 Our Approach

edge object constituents for which these patterns provide evidence. A text scanner processes each input document, searching for the patterns speci ed in the annotation resource le. Each time a match is found, this generates a hypothesis, in the form of a path fragment associated with a piece of text. The consequence of processing a document is thus a collection of path fragments that capture the evidence found in the document. The path combiner then takes this set of path fragments and attempts to put these together to build a complete knowledge object. Path fragments may contribute to multiple hypotheses about the object being constructed, so the combiner uses the target knowledge object template as a source of constraints on what is possible. In most situations, this will not produce a single ko as a result there will still be ambiguities resulting from textual fragments providing evidence for more than one ko constituent. At this point, we resort to a collection of inference strategies to resolve the ambiguities. Of course, if we had full broad-coverage natural language processing available, then this would achieve the same result: we could just parse the entire text, carry out semantic analysis, and build a representation of the text. However, such an approach is not feasible given the current state of nlp technology, so our aim here is to build on the simpler pattern-matching approaches found in the ie literature, augmented with more sophisticated higher-level processing. Our architectural breakdown strati es the knowledge used in a way that supports easy maintenance and portability: the annotation resource le is a relatively simple declarative knowledge source developed anew for each domain the text scanner and path combiner are generic components that do not embody any domain-speci c knowledge and higher-level knowledge of the domain is factored out into the ko template and the inference strategies.

Our starting point is a de nition of a ko, as shown in the previous section de ned in our current system via an xml dtd, this is a hierarchical structure that speci es the nature of the data to be extracted from the source documents. The simple key to our approach is to recognize that fragments of the text can be correlated with di erent parts of the ko structure. For example, we know that the manufacturer will be a company name and we know that the hard disk capacity will be measured in Mb or Gb. Thus, we can assign type information to the leaf nodes in this structure. At the same time, words in the text can serve as indicators of particular attributes: so, if a sentence contains the phrase removable storage, we can use this to hypothesise the presence of a particular attribute in the text. We think of each such text fragment as a piece of evidence faced with evidence from the text of a collection of attributes and values, the goal is then to combine this information to populate a ko. The architectural model we use thus consists of the following components. An annotation resource le provides a correlation between between arbitrarily complex textual patterns and the knowl-

3.1 Paths

We can view a ko as a graph structure (and for present purposes a tree) into which extracted information can be placed. The arcs between nodes in this tree are labelled with the same names as the element tags in the xml dtd a path is a sequence of arcs in the tree. Each attribute corresponds to path from the root of tree, and each value is a data element that resides at the end of that path. Paths may share common initial subsequences: this means that we use hierarchy in the tree to cluster related pieces of information into subtrees. We use the notation A:B:C to notate path fragments. If a path is from the root of the tree, the path contains an initial `:' if the path has a value

at its end, then we use a terminal `:' to indicate this. A path equation indicates the value at the end of a path: for example
:laptop:iodevices:keyboard:numkeys: = 131

Each piece of evidence we nd in a text can be annotated with a path fragment: this fragment can be of various kinds depending upon how strong the evidence is. The example above is a complete path fragment, where there is no doubt that a particular value is the value of a particular attribute. A path fragment can be initial: this means that we don't have a complete path but we do have some initial sequence of arcs in a path. So, the string onboard memory might correspond to the following annotation:
:laptop:memory:on-board

From a text, we derive a set of path fragments like those shown in the previous section. Our goal is to take this collection of path fragments and to derive from them a set of path equations that de ne an instantiated ko. Formally there are many combinations of path fragments that we could entertain.2 A number of cases need to be considered. First, we do not have to do anything to path fragments which are complete note, however, that we do not want to just forget about these, since their presence may rule out some other possible combinations (in the example above, if we are tempted to merge two path fragments that would give us a di erent number of keys, then we have a good reason for not doing this). Second, two path fragments may share some arcs: so, in the above, a possible combination results in
memory:maximum:bytesize:unit: = Gb

We don't know at this point what aspect of the on-board memory is being described. A path fragment can be medial: this means that we don't have a complete path but we do have the some sequence of arcs in the middle of a path. So, a string like memory capacity (maximum) may correspond to main memory, graphics memory, or perhaps some other kind of memory this corresponds to the following medial path fragment:
memory:maximum:bytesize

Finally, a path fragment can be nal. This means we have some sequence of arcs at the end of a path. So, the string 2Gb corresponds to the following pair of path fragments:
bytesize:unit: = Gb bytesize:number: = 2

This is a possible combination but not a necessary one: arc labels are not unique, so it's possible that this particular bytesize:unit fragment does not belong with the memory:maximum:bytesize fragment. Third, from a formal point of view, any pair of paths can be combined, with the exception that an initial path can only appear at the front of a combined path, and a terminal path can only appear at the end of a combined path. In such cases, where there is no overlap, there is essentially missing material in the middle, which we indicate using `...'. So, we might have a combined path that looks something like the following':
:laptop:memory:...:bytesize:unit: = Gb

To operationalise these notions, the annotation resource le correlates arbitrarily complex textual patterns with path fragments. These patterns are then used by the text scanner to generate hypotheses about the information in the text, expressed in terms of the path fragments the complete analysis of a text thus results in a set of textual clues and their corresponding hypothesised path fragments.

3.2 Path Merging

This is a case where we have some possible evidence for a memory size but we don't know if it is the standard on-board memory, the expandedto-maximum memory size, or some other aspect of memory size. Of course, not all formally possible combined paths are actually possible. The ko de nition provides a way of ruling out impossible path combinations. Our technique for ltering the paths is as follows. First, we take the set of paths that constitute a ko, called the ko path set this will look something like the following:
:laptop:model:manufacturer: :laptop:model:series:

A ko consists of set of paths, and a fully instantiated ko has a value for each path that makes up the ko. We can characterise an instantiated ko by a set of path equations:
:laptop:model:manufacturer: = Dell :laptop:model:series: = Inspiron

...

:laptop:iodevices:mouse:numbuttons:

...

:laptop:iodevices:mouse:numbuttons: = 3

2 The ideas discussed here have been strongly in uenced by work in graph-based uni cation 4].

... Then, we take the set of path fragments derived from the document. We rst separate out the medial paths and the complete paths, leaving the initial paths and nal paths. We then produce all

possible initial nal combinations, resulting in what we call the if path set. Each element of the if path set has the form
:A:B:C:...:X:Y:Z:

We then compare each element of the if path set against the ko path set. Any match of an if path against the ko path set constitutes an instantiation: it provides a possible substitution for the `...' part. Note that any if path may result in multiple instantiations. If an if path results in no instantiations, then it is not completable given the ko de nition, and can be discarded. The remaining if paths make up the ltered if path set and each element of this set may correspond to multiple instantiations. We notate instantiations as follows:
:A:B:C: P:Q:R]:X:Y:Z:

simple probability measure is based on the distance between the initial path fragment (which generally corresponds to the attribute being considered) and the nal path fragment (which corresponds to the value being assigned to that attribute): we can assign scores so that those instantiations that have closer I and F evidence will score higher. Then, we select from this set a smaller set of paths that (a) uses each piece of evidence only once and (b) takes account of the scores. The result is a set of hypotheses that populate the ko using all the data located in the source document, with each piece of evidence being used once. This is, of course, a very simple technique, but one that seems to work well on the basis of our initial experiments, at least for information extracted from free-form text. Far more elaborate heuristics could be incorporated in the same way. We have presented an approach to information extraction that separates out the di erent knowledge sources and types of knowledge required. The approach makes use of both top-down and bottom-up knowledge sources, and neatly partitions domain-speci c and domain-independent processing: we believe the mechanisms described here should be easily portable to a new domain by constructing a knowledge object template for that domain, and an appropriate annotation resource le. The text scanner and path combining modules are domain independent, as are the current inference strategies as the work develops, we would expect the inference strategies to break down into those which are domain-dependent and those which are domain-independent.

4 Conclusions

This indicates that P:Q:R is a possible completion derived from the ko path set. In e ect, material between square brackets is hypothesized on the basis of top-down knowledge we have not extracted direct evidence for it from the text. Next we take the medial paths and see if they support any of these instantiations by matching them against the instantiations. Again, a medial path may support multiple instantiations. A medial path may actually overlap with the initial or nal path in an instantiation. By combining this information, we produce a set of paths built from the initial, medial and nal path fragments in the text, and ltered using the ko path set. We then need to reduce the set of instantiations in the ltered imf path set so that we end up with a set where each I, M or F element only plays a role once. Some combinations of the contributing I, M and F fragments are are more likely than others. We therefore need to assess each combination, and where there is a competing demand for a piece of evidence, determine which of the alternative uses of that evidence is most plausible.

References

3.3 Adding Reasoning

The set of hypotheses constructed so far uses a combination of bottom-up knowledge from the textual source itself, and top-down knowledge from the ko. This does not necessarily result in a completely instantiated ko, and so we need to add heuristics that allow us to choose between competing hypotheses. Note that the architectural separation we have adopted allows the incorporation at this stage of arbitrary intelligence to the process, thus focussing the knowledge-based processing in one place here, we describe the incorporation of a simple heuristic based on a distance metric. Ultimately, where we have competing instantiations, we can assign probabilities to each. One

1] J. Cowie and W. Lehnert. Information extraction. Communications of the ACM, Volume 39, Number 1, pages 80{91, 1996. 2] R Dale, S J Green, M Milosavljevic, C Paris, C Verspoor and S Williams. Using natural language generation techniques to produce virtual documents. In Proceedings of the Third Australian Document Computing Symposium (ADCS'98), Sydney, Australia, August 21 1998. 3] Andrei Mikheev, Claire Grover and Marc Moens. XML tools and architecture for named entity recognition. Markup Languages, Volume 1, Number 3, pages 89{113, 1999. 4] S. Shieber. An Introduction to Uni cationBased Approaches to Grammar. CSLI Lecture Notes. Chicago University Press, Chicago, 1986.

Workflow Based Just-in-time Training
J. Davis, J. Kay, K. Lin, J. Poon, A. Quigley, G. Saunders, K. Yacef School of Information Technologies University of Sydney Australia {jdavis,judy,kenl,josiah,aquigley,gsaunder,kalina}@it.usyd.edu.au Abstract
This paper focuses on the problem of information overload for newcomers in an organisation. We propose to address it by constructing a smart personal training assistant based upon workflow tools to drive temporal management of a just-intime workplace training system which will deliver a personalised and structured presentation of organisational documents. Keywords Document Workflow, Management, Information Retrieval. Document port teaching. The Flex-eL project [2, 1, 3] aims to support students as they work their way through a University level course. It provides "flexible learning pathways" based on workflow models of the study processes for the course. This approach relaxes constraints on the timing of learning processes, enabling the student to proceed at their own pace. It is also capable of providing the student with multiple pathways through the course, enabling them to tailor their learning to their own individual style.

1
Improving newcomers' learning and integration into an organisation, institution, board or project, is a crucial problem encountered in almost any domain. Newcomers to a project team or organisation often face information overload that impedes their learning [4] and their resultant performance. If the newcomer holds an executive position, the situation becomes critical for the entire organisation. As with any training, structuring the exposure of newcomers to this knowledge helps them to learn more quickly and effectively, thus improving their efficiency and motivation, and also reducing financial costs for the organisation. We propose to combine the benefits of research in personalised training, personalisation based on a user modelling framework for representing a user's knowledge and preferences and on knowledge management and the use of workflow technology to tackle this problem. The combination of workflows, personalisation and tutoring is novel. However, there has been some work exploiting workflow technology to supThe work reported in this paper is funded in part by the Cooperative Research Centres Program through the Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet of the Commonwealth Government of Australia. Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

Introduction

2

Overview of Architecture

Figure 1 illustrates the architecture of our JITT system. The training assistant makes use of workflow tools and draws upon user modelling and a document repository with links to the workflow. Workflow tools. The workflow tools enable the training assistant to deliver information in a timely fashion. A workflow model of each organisational process is generated which defines the temporal ordering of the various stages of the process. In addition, the workflow contains information about the time intervals between the various stages. When the user starts an organisational process, a workflow instance is created enabling the training assistant to track the progress of the user as they go about their various tasks. The assistant is then able to determine, based on the current stage in the workflow, what information the user requires in order to complete the current stage and prepare for imminent stages in the workflow. User modelling. The system maintains a model of each user of the system. This model contains information about the user's present knowledge and past experience and is used by the training assistant to personalise the presentation of information to the user. The personalisation enables the user to easily find the information they need without having to sift through irrelevant data or data which they already know. In addition, the user may modify their user model to incorporate their personal preferences about the frequency and form of information delivery.

Document Repository

Personalised Document

push Complete Workflow Collection Workflows pull
Personalised Document

instances for this user skeletons User Model "Tell me about X"

Training Assistant

"Tell me what to read"

Figure 1: Just-in-time Training architecture fortnightly, in a single lump sum or by issuing an invoice from a company. A number of documents may be associated with the "Claiming Pay" workflow. For example, the casual lecturer contract; a bank account declaration form; examples of completed versions of this form; tax details declaration form; University policy documents for casual academics etc. In Figure 2, Justin has suggested that the next logical step for the user is to fill in a personalised casual (pay) claim form which can be seen at bottom right.

Document repository. The system maintains a repository of training documents which form the basis for the content provided by the training assistant. These training documents are linked with various stages in the workflow models of organisational processes. In addition, the documents are formatted in such a way as to enable the training assistant to extract the most relevant information and format it in a consistent manner. It is also possible to link a trainer, that is, a human being with expertise on a given topic, to various stages in the workflow. Essentially, this generalises the notion of a `document' so that the system can deliver the details of the expertise and contact details of a potential human advisor. This is particularly important for enabling JITT to take advantage of tacit knowledge, which is available as in a formal document. In summary, the training assistant examines the current stage(s) in the various workflows and generates a list of documents from the document repository that are associated with these workflow stages. This list of documents is then processed to remove irrelevant or previously known information based on the user model. Finally, the assistant formats the documents according to the user's preferences and makes suggestions to the user about the documents they may be interested in or ought to read. In addition, the user may request information on a certain topic and the training assistant is able to answer this request with personalised documents on the relevant subject matter.

4

Personalisation for JITT

3

Workflows for JITT

Figure 2 is a mockup of our JITT system with an intelligent conversational tutor interface called Justin.1 At the top right an example workflow can be seen describing the process of claiming pay. In this workflow, a casual lecturer can elect to be paid
1 Virtual Charter Image, kindly reproduced with the permission of the Centre for Speech Technology, Sweden.

Underpinning the personalisation in our JITT system is the model of each user. This needs to represent relevant aspects of their knowledge and learning preferences. In general, the design of a user model involves a tradeoff between the desirable levels of detail that might be useful for personalisation against the practicality of capturing all relevant information about the user. The workflow foundation of the JITT system provides a systematic basis for designing the user model. Essentially, each workflow in the system can be regarded as one context for the modelling. Within that single workflow context, the elements of the workflow constitute elements of the user model. Once the elements of the workflow have been defined, it is possible to automatically generate the skeletal elements of the associated user model. To make user modelling feasible, we need to ensure there are mechanisms for determining whether the user knows each of these elements. Natural sources of user modelling information follow from the JITT architecture. The most obvious is available if the system is able to determine that the user has accessed a document. This is one form of evidence that the user knows something about each workflow element that has a link to that document. Another core source of evidence follows when

Figure 2: Mockup of "Justin", Our Intelligent Just-in-time Trainer. Each process involves a quite small workflow and its small collection of associated documents. At any one point in time, Sandra has successfully moved to a point in each workflow, perhaps not yet having started some of workflows at all, or perhaps having partially completed others and fully completed yet others. JITT can select information that might be suitable for pushing to Sandra by making a list of all those documents associated with points just ahead of her current position on each of the workflows that are active for her. It is the task of the training assistant to select from these and decide on the delivery of documents. For the pull process, the currently active workflows constitute a form of context for Sandra's understanding of organisational processes. This means that requests she makes to JITT can exploit this context in searching the document base. It can rate documents as more likely to be relevant to a query if they are just ahead of her current position on each of the workflows that are active for her. It can also rate documents as more likely to be relevant to a query if they are on workflows she has not started to date. The training assistant combines this assessment with other document retrieval techniques based on term matches.

the user succeeds in performing one cycle of the workflow. For example, if the system has access to information that the user has acquired keys, it can use this as strong evidence that the user knows all the critical components of the workflow. It can also serve as weaker evidence about other components. We collect evidence from sources such as these to reason about the user's knowledge and manage it in an evidence-based reasoning system. The architecture has been designed with the expectation that each workflow within the system will be quite simple. This reflects that each individual process within this learning domain is quite small. The problem for the user is that there are many different processes in which they engage. We now illustrate this with an example scenario. Sandra is a Professor of Computer Engineering and has just joined the University. She has several roles, including those of researcher in computer engineering, teacher of postgraduate and honours thesis students and teacher of an undergraduate course. These roles each need to be translated into a collection of workflows, one for each of the processes relevant to it. For example, her research activities mean that she needs to know about several processes, such as those for applying for university research grants, gaining internal funds for equipment, interacting with support staff when she has problems with equipment, managing university accounts for her existing grants and a diverse range of other processes such as those for organising conference travel.

5

Teaching Strategies
Teaching strategies are concerned with what to teach, how to teach and when. What In traditional intelligent teaching systems, the ordering of learning topics, i.e. the curriculum, is either explicit or relies on the structure

why they need to read a specific document, and how this document will help them do a certain task, is crucial. Second, they can be simulated: the user could decide to simulate the actions of a part of a workflow to have a clearer picture of the actions to come, documents to be read and can also identify potential pitfalls or overloads before they arise.

of the knowledge being taught. However, in our approach the ordering is provided by the workflow. Each organisational process is represented by a workflow, with appropriate organisational documents attached to relevant points in each workflow. The advantage of workflows is that by their nature they sequence the steps through a particular process, making them naturally suited for suggesting the delivery of just-in-time documentation. When Documents are suggested to the user in two ways: pull and push.

6

Conclusion

· The user may query the system to retrieve specific documents. By doing so, they may activate a new workflow process. · The system identifies documents that are becoming relevant to the user according to the currently active workflows and pushes them to the user on a needs basis.

In this paper we have described an architecture for a just-in-time training system which exploits the structure afforded by workflow technology. In an organisation which has tools to manage its document collection and to capture workplace processes, the JITT architecture offers the possibility of additional leverage from the work invested in the workflow system so that this can be extended to support employee training. The workflow also serves as a foundation for generating a user model systematically, at the precise level of granularity of the workflow itself. This means that effort invested in modelling the workflow would be reused to generate the structure of the user model for JITT. The teaching strategy also benefits from the presence of workflow technology, allowing for the structured presentation of information and for the easy identification of relevant information. Additionally, the workflow allows for the simulation of a process, indicating documents that should be read and helping to identify problems before they occur.

References
[1] J. Lin, C. Ho, W. Sadiq and M. Orlowska. On workflow enabled e-learning services. In Proceedings of the IEEE International Conference on Advanced Learning Technologies, ICELT'2001, Madison, USA, August 2001. [2] O. Marjanovic and M. Orlowska. Making flexible learning more flexible. In IEEE International Workshop on Advanced Learning Technologies, New Zealand, December 2000. [3] S. Sadiq, W. Sadiq and M. Orlowska. Workflow driven e-learning: Beyond collaborative environments. In Proceedings of the World Congress on Networked Learning in a global environment, Challenges and Solutions for Virtual Education, Technical University of Berlin, Germany, May 2002. [4] J. Sweller. Some cognitive processes and their consequences for the organisation and presentation of information. Australian Journal of Psychology, Volume 45, Number 1, pages 1­8, 1993.

At any time several organisational processes are active for an employee, e.g. a teaching process, the process of writing a grant proposal, and so on. This means that several documents are relevant to the user at any given time. Our JITT system, behaving as an assistant, presents a list of documents to the user, sorted by several dynamic criteria (such as priority, associated workflow and due date). We plan to explore a range of interfaces and modalities to support interaction with the user. The style of interface shown in Figure 2 enables us to explore the use of the workflow in helping the user appreciate the context. We also intend to explore a more conventional style of interface which is a combination of email and search-engine interfaces, with a browser search-engine interface for the pull mechanism. These have the advantage of being familiar to the user and offer space for additional text about each document, allowing the user to click through to the actual document. Notification mechanisms such as email can also be added. How The level of recommendation varies according to the necessity of the document. Some documents are crucial, such as the pay claim form in our "Claiming Pay" example, while others are merely suggested, such as when the system cannot determine whether the knowledge contained in a document is already known to the user. Suppose the user returns to the "Claiming Pay" workflow a year later, would they want to download the claim form again? Explanations help learners to understand. Workflows contribute in two different ways. First, they provide causal links between a sequence of actions and documents, in a way that users can easily understand. Users do not have the time to read a large number of documents, so knowing

Visual Displays for Browsing RDF Documents
Peter Eklund School of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering The University of Queensland St. Lucia QLD 4072 peklund@itee.uq.edu.au Introduction
Hyperbolic browsers are motivated by the "Circle Limit IV" woodcut of M.C. Escher. The hyperbolic tree view was introduced in graph drawing by Lamping and Rao [2] who observed that large structures could be compactly displayed by projecting a tree onto a hyperbolic plane. The effect of the projection is that components appear diminishing in size and radius exponentially the further they move from the centre of the diagram. The arguments for the hyperbolic display are twofold: an order of magnitude more nodes of a tree can be rendered in the same display space and the focus is maintained on the central vertex of the display and its immediate neighbourhood. The hyperbolic view is particularly useful for hierarchical diagrams with large numbers of leaves and branches and where neighbourhood relationships are meaningful. Examples of the hyperbolic view are I NXIGHT's Star Tree1 and H YPER P ROF2 . Given that the pure hyperbolic geometric projection is patented, projection onto a sphere, and diminishing radial layout views are the drawing approaches we have experimented with. Recent interest in the Semantic Web has invigorated interest in programs that render ontological data sources (structured metadata) in the style of semantic networks well known in AI. The O NTOBROKER [1] project used a hyperbolic browser to view semantic relationships between frames in F-Logic. O NTORAMA traces its lineage to the O NTOBROKER3 Java source code, but the code has been substantially re-written since 1999. The O NTO R AMA effort involved refactoring the Java for the W EB KB-2 project [3, 4] which uses its own internal formats (conceptual graphs). OntoRama and RDF RDF is a widely used standard for knowledge exchange. Thus, by using RDF, RDF(S) and DAML+OIL as inputs, we broaden the application base for O NTO R AMA. Further, access to a selection of RDF libraries encourages testing and generalising
1 http://www.inxight.com 2 http://www.physics.orst.edu/~bulatov/HyperProf/ 3 http://ontobroker.aifb.unikarlsruhe.de/index

program operation to handle different input files. We are progressively adapting O NTO R AMA to handle DAML+OIL compliant RDF(S) and reified RDF: the program is therefore still under development. Some of the more obvious challenges for a general purpose RDF, RDF(S) and DAML+OIL browser are: (i) many RDF ontologies are not strictly hierarchical and include multiple inheritance; (ii) many properties may connect Resources and Properties so there is more than a single transitive edge type in the RDF graph; (iii) often objects are isolated and may not be reachable by following relation links from the top (root) item: not all RDF objects found by search are connected. An input file may therefore be a forest rather than a tree and the browser must be able to navigate across the individual components. (iv) Further, we need to be able to represent RDF Resources/Descriptions so that the visual representation of the documents does not loose any information. Less obviously, (v) RDF that is reified, predicates that have a situational content, must be dealt with in a visual way and (vi) there are also many syntactically equivalent forms of RDF. These create design issues for O NTO R AMA since, not only is the RDF input syntax complex, but also the usual tree-view metaphor for the hyperbolic-like view breaksdown.
... <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">artifact</rdfs:label> <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">artefact</rdfs:label> ... <dc:Creator>http://cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/ </dc:Creator> <rdfs:comment>a man-made object taken as a whole </rdfs:comment> <rdfs:subClassOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/pm#CreatedThing"/> <rdfs:subClassOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/wn#PhysicalObject"/> <rdfs:subClassOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/wn#WholeThing"/> <daml:disjointWith rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/wn#NaturalObject"/> ...

ob.html

Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

RDF(S) objects may inherit properties in multiple ways, point (i) above; so some adaptation of the strict tree-structure browsing principles, particularly to the hyperbolic browsers view, needs to be addressed. Any RDF file can be considered an acyclic graph where a child can have multiple parents (as is the RDF shown above) where a single Artifact has four superclass parents, CreatedThing, PhysicalObject, WholeThing and NaturalObject.

Figure 1. O NTO R AMA: The Property Hierarchy shows the subclass/superclass relations between relation types. The data structure must therefore conform to a tree and non-planar graphs transformed to this form. The solution is to copy entire sub-branches in the graph for vertices with multiple parents: producing a tree structure where vertices have only one incoming edge. Once a vertex (and its ancestors as a sub-tree) have been copied, each vertex can be drawn in the coordinate plane using either hyperbolic or radial layout algorithms. Copying vertices and sub-graphs in this way has a disadvantage, the size of the overall tree increases, reducing the effectiveness of the hyperbolic view and an argument for its use. In addition, the GUI needs to be designed to highlight copied vertices and sub-graphs, so that these replicated structures are easily identifiable. Copied vertices and sub-trees are rendered red to distinguish them in the interface and copies are connected to this ring to enable the user to identify and unify the copies, locating them in the view. A disadvantage of using a tree metaphor for browsing RDF is that an RDF file may contain multiple trees (or simply objects and attributes that disconnected). Initially, O NTO R AMA relied on the fact that all input items were interconnected directly (or indirectly) connected to a "top" ontology item. Overcoming this problem, to allow O NTO R AMA to browse a forest rather than a tree, the various components of the tree are made accessible by a pull-down menu (top-left) called Unconnected nodes list, here the tree components are named after the root node name of each of the component trees. O N TO R AMA must display two tree structures: one for the object or class hierarchy and the other for the property hierarchy. To illustrate, consider the following RDF at the top of page 4. The solution to rendering property hierarchies is to introduce two graphical structures that interoperate. Color and shape are useful device to draw attention to the points where the interactions between the RDF Resource hierarchy and the Property hierarchy inter-connect. This is shown in Fig. 1, note the green Property Relation immediately to the right of Thing, the notation of W EB KB-2 indicates that these are exclusive types, namely that the Resource/Object hierarchy is exclusive of the Property/relation hierarchy. We advocate multiple visual views over an ontology, and O NTO R AMA includes both the hyperbolic-style view and a tree view widget. Other visual views, such as true 3D displays and

Figure 2. O NTO R AMA: The Property Hierarchy shows the subclass/superclass relations between relatioon types. Note that the tree widget now displays the relational signature.

select relations they wish to view by selecting the link check boxes (see Figure 1 (top)). Queries are then filtered to show the specified relation links. The object type properties in O NTO R AMA are fully configurable via the configuration XML file. This means if we need to display an ontology with different relation links, or different properties for each object type, we need only alter the configuration file without re-building the application. O NTO R AMA reads the configuration file on start up. It consists of two sections: the ontology section and the rdfMapping section. The ontology section describes all details relevant to loading an ontology. The section includes a set of relation elements, each defining an ontology relation link. Similarly, we define concept type properties. Concept type properties are properties applicable to a concept type in the current ontology. For example, concept types have properties such as type, description, creator, synonyms, etc. Each relation is defined as a relation element is assigned an id. The id is a reference to the corresponding relation that O NTO R AMA uses. We also define a name for each relation link. Some relations can have two names, which means that they inverse relations. An example of such relations are subtype/supertype. Consider the term wn#dog. This term is connected to the term wn#canine via relation link subtype (wn#dog is subtype of wn#canine). The inverse relation link to subtype is supertype and the following is a fragment from the configuration file describing the subtype/supertype relation:
<relation id="1"> <relationType name="subtype" mappingSymbol="&lt;"/> <relationType name="supertype" mappingSymbol="&gt;"/> <display color="#33CCFF" symbol="&lt;"/> </relation>

Each relation is identified by a relation id and name. Note that O NTO R AMA will display only one relation link for each relation and the first declared link in the relation is displayed. Display properties for each relation link, such as color and symbol, are also included. Concept type properties are defined using the element conceptProperty. At present this element has only an id: a string describing this property. Once these elements are read by O NTO R AMA, the application knows that it needs to create corresponding entries in the description panel.
<rdfMapping> <relationLinks> <map id="1" type="supertype" tag="subClassOf"/> <map id="3" type="part" tag="part"/> <map id="6" type="inclusive" tag="jointWith"/> </relationLinks> <conceptProperties> <map id="Description" tag="comment"/> <map id="Creator" tag="Creator"/> <map id="Synonym" tag="label"/> </conceptProperties> </rdfMapping>

concept lattices, may also be appropriate for browsing ontological data. Most computer users are familiar with viewing files in a directory structure using a so called "tree widget". However, a tree view does not usually represent the idea of a file belonging to more than one sub-directory since the physical (or logical) structure of most file systems insists on a strict hierarchy. Unlike the hyperbolic view, where a fixed envelope of space displays the children and there may be hundreds of children crowded into a small radial space, the tree view allows the structure to be drawn downwards with no limiting viewing space. Therefore, the advantage of the hyperbolic view is that users can understand the ontology structure by seeing the relational links between the vertices however this needs to be supplemented by a tree view explorer when there are large numbers of children. O NTO R AMA exploits the advantages of both views in different circumstances by allowing them to complement one another. Each view should allow the user to execute similar commands, the user can click on a vertex in the hyperbolic view and gain focus in both hyperbolic and file explorer view. The vertex is highlighted in both. Vertices in the hyperbolic view can be double clicked to drill-down or roll-up in a similar manner to collapsing the directory structure in a file explorer. When a node is folded in the hyperbolic view, it is represented by a square and the rest of the subbranch becomes invisible. Pruning branches in the hyperbolic view enables the user to adjust the focus and details of the display and enhance the cognitive effect of navigating the ontology with the GUI. O NTO R AMA can be configured to parse different RDF and XML inputs. The O NTO R AMA configuration file allows the user to specify various relation links. Assigned to relation links are a symbol and colour, used in O NTO R AMA to distinguish link types. These images are used to display the relation types. The user may

The RdfMapping section of the configuration file specifies how the application will be able to

<rdf:RDF xmlns:rdf="http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#" xmlns:rdfs="http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/PR-rdf-schema-19990303#" xmlns:dc="http://purl.org/metadata/dublin_core#" xmlns:daml="http://www.daml.org/2000/10/daml-ont#" xmlns:pm="http://wekbkb.org/pm#"> <rdf:Property rdf:about="http://www.daml.org/2000/10/daml-ont#equivalentTo"> <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">equivalent_to</rdfs:label> <dc:Creator>http://www.daml.org/2001/03/daml+oil.daml</dc:Creator> <rdfs:subPropertyOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/pm#equal"/> </rdf:Property> <rdf:Property rdf:about="http://wekbkb.org/pm#equal"> <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">equal</rdfs:label> <dc:Creator>philippe.martin@gu.edu.au</dc:Creator> <rdfs:comment>"=" in KIF</rdfs:comment> <rdfs:subPropertyOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/pm#equivalenceRelation"/> <daml:complementOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/pm#different"/> </rdf:Property> <rdf:Property rdf:about= "http://wekbkb.org/pm#equivalenceRelation"> <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">equivalence_relation</rdfs:label> <dc:Creator>philippe.martin@gu.edu.au</dc:Creator> <rdfs:comment>instance of equivalence_relation_class</rdfs:comment> <rdfs:subPropertyOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/pm#orderingRelation"/> </rdf:Property> <rdf:Property rdf:about="http://wekbkb.org/pm#orderingRelation"> <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">ordering_relation</rdfs:label> <dc:Creator>philippe.martin@gu.edu.au</dc:Creator> <rdfs:comment> e.g. pm#kind, rdfs#sub_class_of, pm#part, pm#equal</rdfs:comment> <rdfs:subPropertyOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/pm#relation"/> </rdf:Property> <rdf:Property rdf:about="http://wekbkb.org/pm#relation"> <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">relation</rdfs:label> <rdfs:label xml:lang="en">related_with</rdfs:label> <dc:Creator>philippe.martin@gu.edu.au</dc:Creator> <rdfs:comment>type for any relation (unary, binary, ...) </rdfs:comment> <rdf:type rdf:resource= "http://www.w3.org/1999/02/22-rdf-syntax-ns#Property"/> <daml:complementOf rdf:resource="http://wekbkb.org/pm#Thing"/> </rdf:Property> </rdf:RDF>

describe extensions to the usual hyperbolic-style view allowing multi-link types to be rendered and filtered. Issues of application generality, configuration files for the application in XML, and the correspondence between behaviours in the application and RDF descriptions are discussed. O NTO R AMA can be trialed at http://www.ontorama.org.

find items defined in the ontology section in the source RDF file. The preceding example illustrates an rdfMapping element. rdfMapping consists of two subsubsections: relationLinks maps relation links defined in the ontology section to RDF tags. conceptProperties maps concept type properties to RDF tags. For instance, the element <map id="1" type="supertype" tag="subClassOf"/> is a mapping relation type supertype to the RDF tag subClassOf. This is an interesting example because (as stated previously), O NTO R AMA displays the relation link subtype, and the application has to be told of the inverse supertype links to be able to display them. The following illustrates; The last statement is translated by O NTO R AMA as: wn#TrueCat is supertype of wn#Cat. However, O N TO R AMA needs to reverse this statement as only subtype relation links are displayed resulting in: wn#Cat is the subtype of wn#TrueCat.

References

Conclusion
O NTO R AMA has emerged as a practical tool for viewing ontologies described in RDF using Java Swing. We describe a solution to hyperbolic-style layout that is complicated by the prevalence of multiple inheritance in most ontological structures. We further

[1] Fensel, D., S. Decker, M. Erdmann, and R. Studer, "Ontobroker: Or How to Enable Intelligent Access to the WWW," Proc. 11th Knowledge Acquisition Workshop (KAW98), Banff, Canada, April 1998, pp. 8­23. [2] Lamping, J. and Ramana Rao: The Hyperbolic Browser: A Focus+Context Technique for Visualizing Large Hierarchies, Proceedings of CHI'95, ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, New York, pp. 401-408, 1995. [3] Martin, P. and P. Eklund: Embedding Knowledge in Web Documents, The Eighth International World Wide Web Conference, (WWW8), pp. 324­341, Elsevier, 1999. [4] Martin, P. and P. Eklund: Knowledge Indexation and Retrieval and the Word Wide Web, IEEE Intelligent Systems -- Special Issue on "Knowledge Management and Knowledge Distribution over the Internet, July, pp. 18-25, 2000.

Tibianna: A Learning-Based Search Engine with Query Refinement
Clint Heyer
Information Environments Program School of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 4072 Australia clint@thestaticvoid.net joachimd@itee.uq.edu.au

Joachim Diederich

Abstract
While web search engine technology has improved over time, there is often a fundamental reliance on keyword matching for searches. What happens however, when the user does not know what keywords to use? This paper presents preliminary learning results of a prototype learning search engine that attempts to address this problem. Tibianna allows a user to manually rank a set of results based on their own relevancy function. Once a required number of results are ranked, the set is downloaded, processed and presented to support vector machines (SVMs) for learning. Once learned, Tibianna can actively reorder or discard search engine results based on the model it has learned. This provides a way of improving search results without requiring query refinement. Learning outcomes from experimental trials with Tibianna are presented, demonstrating the implications of using different preprocessing techniques and corpus sizes. Query refinement functions are also available to the user, which can enable exploration of query words via the WordNet database, and allows quick query refinement via a dynamic HTML interface. Keywords Information Retrieval, Documents, Search Engine Technology Personalised

query. Learning what the user's information needs are is a powerful technique; and has the possibility of increasing the effectiveness of a search engine. This latter method will be the primary focus for this paper, and indeed the system itself. By providing the user with more tools for refining their search, the system can better capture what the user values. This value metric varies from query to query and user to user, even though keywords used are identical[1, 2]. Support vector machines (SVMs)[3] have been shown to be highly effective in text classification problems, primarily due to their ability to handle large dimensionality and a large number of features[4]. Tibianna takes the form of a traditional search engine, with interface and result-formatting similar to Google. The user interacts via a web browser, with Tibianna residing on either a remote server or the local machine. In preliminary experiments, Tibianna utilised Google as its underlying provider of search results. After the user enters a query, each result is displayed with a drop-down box allowing the user to rank its relevancy, after either viewing the page or by reading the page summary.

1

Introduction

This paper attempts to address an inherent problem with keyword-based search engines ­ what happens if the user doesn't know what keywords to use? This situation can present itself when the user is searching new domains; when the user is uncertain about what to search for or when they do not know what keywords to use to get the desired results. There is a divide between the user's search intent ­ their mind view of what kind of results they wish to find - and the effectiveness of the query they craft to match their intent. How effectively a user can craft their query is largely dependant on their knowledge of the search domain and proficiency with the search engine used. The prototype implementation, named Tibianna, presents the user with query refinement options by using contextual and semantic data about the user's query, gathered from WordNet1. Supervised machine learning is used by the system in order to provide the user with results that more closely match their search intent without necessitating modification of the search
1

Figure 1: Initial search result page

http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/
th

Proceedings of the 7 Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

After ranking a number of results the user can opt to send the rankings back to Tibianna. Tibianna then downloads each result and processes it, displaying the next page of results to the user. Once a requisite number of results are ranked by the user, Tibianna switches to classification mode, and reorders Google results according to the model it has learned. Section 2 examines how features are extracted and processed from web documents in Tibianna, with Section 3 introducing the query refinement options briefly, and showing screen shots of the features. Section 4 details parameter experiments, with the results presented in Section 5. Section 6 discusses

future work with conclusions drawn in Section 7. More background on Tibianna is presented in [5].

The `?' text provides a tooltip for the meaning of a sense.

2

Feature Extraction

Figure 3: A user can see a list of examples of a sense meaning. Each example is hyperlinked and adds the example to the query when clicked.

Figure 4: Clicking `Exclude alternatives' attempts to reduce result set size by explicitly excluding alternative senses. In this example, the original "java code" query is refined to "java code ­`island' ­ `beverage'"

Resources in Tibianna undergo a series of transformations before they can be presented to the SVM for learning. Firstly, HTML mark-up and any other special symbols that do not form part of the content are removed. The obvious side-effect of this stage is that any directly or indirectly encoded metadata is discarded, and cannot influence the learning result. Other work such as [2, 6] maintains this data to add weighting to subsections of content. In the next stage, a stop list is used to remove the most 300 commonly used words in the English language. Words remaining from this stage are then stemmed according to the Porter algorithm[7]. Stop word removal takes out a number of features that have little bearing on the meaning of a resource and stemming reduces the number of features by converting plural and tense variations of a word to a common stem. N-grams (up to 5-grams are used in Tibianna) are then created based on remaining words. Finally, features extracted from the entire corpus are brought together to be counted and weighed. Inverse document frequency (IDF) weighing is used to reduce the weight of commonly occurring features. The output of this stage is a training file used by SVMlight [8] to create a model from the data. This model is later used in the classification stage, after resources have gone through the same pre-processing stages as the training resources. Tibianna uses SVM ranking classification[6], as opposed to the more traditional binary classification.

4

Experimental Methodology

3
To assist the user in refining their search, query refinement options are available. These options are of particular value when the user is searching in a new domain, and makes use of the lexical database, WordNet. WordNet has been used in other work for query refinement, such as [9, 10]. Search queries are split into individual words and cross-referenced with WordNet. Data such as senses, synonyms, hyponyms, holonyms and meronyms for each word is presented to the user in a dynamic HTML interface within the search results. Client-side scripting is used for the interface to allow the user to explore the refinement options quickly, without the extra roundtrip to the server. Usage examples of query refinement using the query "java" are shown in Figures 2-4.

Query Refinement

Many of the pre-processing stages have parameters that need to be determined for optimal running of the system. To discover these parameters, various experiments were run with real-world data sets. The training document set of 28 pages (see discussion below on the size of the training set) were sourced from the first 30 results for the Google search of `java'. Each result was hand-ranked on a 0 to 10 scale, with 10 being the highest. Another set of 11 pages were sought, coming from different sites than those used for training data. Some of these pages were ontopic, others completely irrelevant. These test pages were again hand-ranked using the same scale as the training pages so the classification results could be compared against a consistent benchmark. The rank frequency of the training documents is shown in Table 1.
Rank 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Frequency 5 7 7 2 1 1 1 1 0 0 3 28

Figure 2: Each query word has a `Refine' box with lets the user explore the word, and modify their query.

Table 1: Rank frequency distribution for training documents

Note the unbalanced frequency as it makes learning more difficult for the SVM, but in turn is a more realistic test case: the search engine does not return many relevant results - exactly the problem Tibianna is designed to address. To determine the effectiveness of the classification results consistently, a simple scoring algorithm was created. The score of a ranking classifier output is more difficult to determine than the traditional binary class based classifier output because a ranking is more complex, being multidimensional. The algorithm maximises the score for orderings that most closely match the target ordering. Relevant attributes are: (1) ranks that are in exact sequence (even though possibly incorrectly ranked), (2) distances between actual and target ranks, and (3) the number of ranks which are "roughly" in sequence (see below). An exact sequence is defined as an ordering such as 2, 3, 4, 5 in which ranks are in exact order, but may be offset from the correct rank. A "rough" sequence is defined as a series of ranks which maintain the correct ordering relationships, but may have one or more missing ranks, for example: 1, 3, 4, 6. A comparison between scored output and leaveone-out (LOO) SVM error rates may serve to highlight the differences, where the target ordering is 0...10:
Ordering produced Score 18 31 31 1 6 3 2 4 8 0 5 9 7 10 1 2 3 6 4 8 5 0 7 9 10 1 2 3 6 4 8 5 0 7 9 10 LOO Error 5.59% 6.83% 10.56%

Figure 5: Parameter tuning results. The major horizontal axis is the n-gram length. The minor horizontal axis represents whether stemming and IDF weighing was used; just IDF was used; just stemming was used `S'; or neither, denoted `SI', `I', `S' and `' respectively.

Table 2: An illustration of the differences in leaveone-out (LOO) error and score.

Most importantly, it is apparent that the learning error rate (leave-one-out error rate, indicated by unmarked line) drops significantly when resources are preprocessed using inverse document frequency (IDF) to weigh features. Using both IDF weighing and word stemming was not as efficient however. The number of support vectors (SVs, shown with a square-marked line) required for learning closely tracks the error rate. This is an indication that as a result of a difficult to learn problem, the number of SVs required to represent the problem grows. As the n-gram count grows (and with it, feature counts ­ denoted in diamond-marked line), the maximum bound for the number of SVs and the error rate appears to decrease; although the lower bounds remain relatively stable. If we look at the score (defined in section 4, shown as a star-marked line) which has been calculated for each test, we can see that that it has a roughly inverse relationship to the error rate. This lends weight to the accuracy of the scoring algorithm, as a high error should result in a low score. Interestingly, when the error rate is in troughs (in the IDF processing column for each n-gram group), the score drops to a median level when it should be highest. Over the period of 2-5 grams, a clear pattern emerges, whereby the score is highest when both stemming and IDF-based weighing are utilised, and drops to its lowest when neither are used. While the latter point is consistent with the error rate, the first is not.

As shown in Table 2, the score is determined by how well the SVM ranked a test set, and may or may not be indicative of a good learning result.

5.2

Corpus Size

5 5.1
In this trial, a static training and test document set was used, with feature extraction parameters systematically modified. There are several interesting conclusions that can be drawn from this trial, which are graphed in Figure 5.

Experimentation The effect of pre-processing options and transformations

Exactly how many documents Tibianna requires the user to rank before it can accurately begin to classify results was an open question at the beginning of this work. A balance needs to be sought between how much time and effort is expected of the user, and how many documents are required for classification. Figure 6 plots the results of this trial.

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 Corpus Size

Figure 6: Corpus size trial results

8
[1]

References

[2]

[3] [4]

With the rising number of documents (horizontal axis) feature counts and support vector quantities (diamondmarked and square-marked lines respectively) also rise, as expected. The leave-one-out error rate (unmarked line) appears to follow a decay function, dropping very rapidly when the corpus size is low, and remaining stable once the corpus size exceeds 20. From repeated runs of this trial (with random orderings each time, and with different datasets), it is evident that the error rate does not decrease significantly past 15 documents, and in practise could be set as low as 12. While training on a larger document set can often improve accuracy of learning, the cost is increased processing time and more time and effort required of the user. In general usage by the authors, it was found that training on 15 documents was acceptable in both learning result and user effort terms. The perceived accuracy of the learning result does depend on the number of positive training cases, and the use of a consistent ranking method by the user. [5]

6

Future Work

[6]

Future analysis and experimentation could improve the final system. How stop-word list size and contents (e.g. using most common words on web rather than in general language usage) affects learning is something not investigated in this paper, but would be beneficial. While the corpus size was intentionally kept small to simulate real-world usage, an investigation into how Tibianna scales using larger corpus sizes would be beneficial. Other work to be done is to investigate the scoring algorithm more exhaustively, experiment with feature reduction methods, and examine how the frequency of differently ranked results alters learning. [7] [8]

7
[9]

Conclusion

Tibianna is a unique system which addresses shortcomings in traditional keyword-based search engines. Primarily, how the user is to find what they desire without knowing the best keywords to use, and how the divide between query terms and the user's search intent be minimised. Tibianna offers users the ability to rank search results based on their own relevancy function. After the user has trained the system on a minimum number of results, Tibianna learns the user's relevancy function with a high degree of accuracy. This learned function is then applied to subsequent search results by reordering results according to learned model. Assisted query refinement via a client-side HTML interface is used in Tibianna to improve the precision of returned results. By selecting terms from the interface, the user can dynamically refine their search by adding terms to the query. In general usage by the authors, Tibianna has shown to be highly valuable. With the combined SVM learning and query refinement, Tibianna is an effective system for improving existing search engines. [10]

E. Glover, S. Lawrence, G. Michael, W. Birmingham, and C. L. Giles, "Web Search Your Way," Communications of the ACM, 1999. E. Glover, G. Flake, S. Lawrence, W. Birmingham, A. Kruger, C. L. Giles, and D. Pennock, "Improving Category Specific Web Search by Learning Query Modifications," presented at Symposium on Applications and the Internet, SAINT, San Diego, CA, 2001. C. Cortes and V. Vapnik, "Support-Vector Networks," Machine Learning, vol. 20(3), pp. 273-297, 1995. T. Joachims, "Text Categorization with Support Vector Machines: Learning With Many Relevant Features," presented at Proceedings of ECML-98, 10th European Conference on Machine Learning, Heidelberg, Germany, 1998, pp. 137-142. C. Heyer, K. Hollingsworth, J. Madden, P. Heydon, K. Bartlett, and J. Diederich, "MyNewsWave: User-centered Web search and news delivery," (to appear) 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, 2002. T. Joachims, "Optimizing Search Engines Using Clickthrough Data," presented at ACM Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2002. M. Porter, "An Algorithm for Suffix Stripping," in Readings in Information Retrieval, vol. 14. San Francisco: Morgan Kaufmann, 1997, pp. 130-137. T. Joachims, Making Large-Scale SVM Learning Practical. Advances in Kernel Methods - Support Vector Learning: MITPress, 1999. P. D. Bruza, R. McArthur, and S. Dennis, "Interactive Internet Search: Keyword, Directory and Query Reformulation Mechanisms Compared," presented at 23rd Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, 2000. D. Moldovan and R. Mihalcea, "Using WordNet and Lexical Operators to Improve Internet Searches," IEEE Internet Computing, vol. 4(1), pp. 34-43, 2000.

MyNewsWave: User-centered Web search and news delivery
Clint Heyer, Jamie Madden, Kelly Hollingsworth, Peter Heydon, Keiran Bartlett, Joachim Diederich
Information Environments Program School of Information Technology and Electrical Engineering The University of Queensland Brisbane Q 4072, Australia

clint@thestaticvoid.net jamie@itee.uq.edu.au keiranbartlett@keiranb.cjb.net

kelly@infenv.com heydonp@acslink.net.au joachimd@itee.uq.edu.au

Abstract
MyNewsWave uses machine learning (including support vector machines) for a user-centred approach to full-text information retrieval as well as news delivery. The system uses knowledge sources such as WordNet to refine keyword queries and learns user-preferences with regard to web search. MyNewsWave includes an audio mining system for topic detection in conjunction with background search to facilitate the retrieval of relevant multimedia information. A special feature of MyNewsWave is the assessment of incoming information with regard to the "mood" or personal relevance to a user. DigiMood is a component of MyNewsWave that classifies web pages into mood categories. Business news, for instance, can be classified by DigiMood to access market sentiment. Marconi analyses incoming news streams and uses machine learning to adjust parameters of a text-to-speech system. The objective is to learn the appropriate voice for news items as part of a speech user interface. Keywords Multimedia resource discovery, Personalised documents, information retrieval.

modelling system that classifies documents into categories relevant to the user. (4) The delievery component Marconi provides a speech user interface that learns to select voices based on user preferences. (5) The Emily audio mining system performs background search and analyses audio files to retrieve additional information. Our aim is to combine active web search, including background research for related audio and textual information, with a user-centered approach to information delivery. Most components of MyNewsWave are implemented and are currently being tested. A user interface similar to a standard web browser integrates the subsystems (Figure 1). A full introduction of all five MyNewsWave components is beyond the scope of this paper. Hence, the focus here is on text mining by use of machine learning techniques as used in the Tibianna and DigiMood subsystems.

1 Overview
Figure 1: The MyNewsWave browser.

We aim at integrating information search and delivery by use of machine learning systems that allow adaption to an individual user. MyNewsWave has five parts: (1) The Tibianna search engine uses support vector machines (SVMs) for learning ranking functions utilising user feedback and ontological knowledge. (2) DigiMood assesses web pages with regard to the mood expressed in the document. (3) Peeping Tom is a topic classification and user
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

2 Introduction: Web search and machine learning
The process by which a user can refine a search is an emerging research field with many approaches and techniques. Tomita & Kikui [1] use graphical query refinement, whereby a query graph is created from

2.1 Web search and support vector machines
Machine learning can be used to improve search results. Cortes & Vapnik [8] introduce support vector machines which are a novel approach to machine learning. Support vector machines are based on the structural risk minimisation principle. Support vector machines find the hypotheses out of the hypothesis space H of a learning system which approximately minimises the bound on the actual error by controlling the VC-dimension of H. SVMs are very universal learning systems [9]. In their basic form, SVMs learn linear threshold functions. However, it is possible to "plug-in" kernel functions so that they can be used to learn polynomial classifiers, radial basis function (RBF) networks and three or more layered neural networks. The most important property of SVMs for text classification is that learning is independent of the dimensionality of the feature space [9]. SVMs evaluate hypothesis by use of the margin they use for separating data points, not the number of features or attributes. This allows for good generalisation even in the presence of a large number of features. Joachims [10] lists the following reasons why SVMs are a preferred method for learning text classifiers: (1) SVMs can process high-dimensional input spaces: If every word of a text is a feature, the input space can easily be larger than 100,000. SVMs control overfitting internally and, therefore, large feature spaces are possible. (2) Few irrelevant features: Feature selection is normally used to avoid input spaces of high dimensionality. In text classification, this is either not practical or many features are equally important. Therefore, SVMs are a convenient way to learn a text classifier with limited preprocessing. (3) Document vectors are sparse: For the reasons mentioned above, SVMs are ideally suited for sparse input vectors of high dimensionality. (4) Most text categorisation problems are linearly separable: This has been empirically determined by a number of authors.

the user's search query. For each search result, a subject graph is created, and its similarity to the query graph determines the ranking. The user hones their search by directly manipulating the query graph as well as indicating if a returned document is relevant. Most search engines use a global relevance ranking which is linked to the query and does not take into account the users' subjective value of a resource [2, 3]. This value metric is not necessarily encapsulated in search queries and documents returned from identical queries by two users may have entirely different values. Better capturing this value metric should increase the precision of the search. Glover [2] uses an `information need' query modifier, which refines search queries to return resources of a certain type, for example research papers, or personal home pages. This modifier allows the engine to extract more qualifiers for the search, without the user having to think about structuring the query, therefore further improving precision. Bruza & McArthur [4] take a user-centred approach by empirically comparing various methods for query modification: standard searching, phrasebased query reformulation and hierarchical directory browsing. One of the query reformulation methods investigated takes advantages of WordNet1, a large lexical database. Moldovan & Mihalcea [5] further investigate using WordNet and describe various algorithms for using an original user's query and WordNet reference data to restructure a user's search query, resulting in significant improvement in performance. A metasearch engine is a search tool that combines the results of one or more external search engines, applying its own ranking function and then presenting the hybrid results to the user [6]. Whereas some metasearchers rely only on the results pages from the source search engines to form the meta result set, Lawrence & Giles [7] present a metasearch engine, NECI, which downloads the top ranked pages from each source, and performs its own analysis. This extra layer of analysis can help to weigh differences in page ranking algorithms used by the various engines, and provides a final, consistent ranking for all engines. NECI also transforms particular user queries into a style that is more likely to be present in a web page. For example, transforming "What does NASDAQ stand for?" into "NASDAQ stands for", "NASDAQ is an abbreviation" and "NASDAQ means". These queries are searched in parallel with the user's original search, with the combined results shown to the user.

1 http://www.cogsci.princeton.edu/~wn/

Glover et al. [11] describe a system that uses SVMs in conjunction with learned query refinement to increase search relevancy. This approach looks at categorising resources into groups such as papers, research papers and product reviews. Their SVM is trained on the top 100 features from each resource, taking into account HTML mark-up (for example, words appearing in the title of the page were weighted higher than those in -2 size font) as well as positioning of terms within the document. A more complex system is proposed in [12]. SVMs are employed to screen out irrelevant resources. Bayesian networks are then used to learn

learned. The user can also delve deeper into the search by considering the lexical and semantic data that is presented.

regular expressions to filter documents for relevant blocks of text. Kwok [9] used SVMs in an automated manner to categorise the Reuters corpus to much success, even with minimal preprocessing. Most relevant to the work presented in this paper is that of Joachims [13] in which SVMs produce a ranking rather than the usual binary positive/negative decision. This new development in SVMs allows the re-ordering to be much more specific; ranking results according to their actual relevancy.

4 DigiMood: Classifying web pages based on emotional content

3 Machine learning to complement traditional keyword-based search: The Tibianna search engine
Keyword-based search engines rely on good metadata derived from content or supplied by a human indexer. If the right keywords are not known (for example, when searching a topic area that is completely new to the person), results are inferior compared to a search with a perfect combination of keywords. Tibianna, a new search engine embedded in MyNewsWave, gives better accuracy to these 'fuzzy' searches by way of (1) reordering existing search engine results, (2) gathered result relevancy user feedback and (3) provision of ontology-based mechanisms provide query refinement functions. Tibianna is particularly suited for multimedia content, where exact keywords or metadata for the resource is often hard to quantify (as opposed to a document, where the search can be performed on the document itself). Of course, any metadata that is available for a resource should still play a large part in determining search result rankings2. In more detail, Tibianna uses search session history (i.e, what the user has searched for previously in this session), and ontological data to help the user to refine search. The system works as follows:  The user starts a web search, the server keeps track of a session.  Where possible, the server adds lexical refinement options to provide more context for the user. Sources for this data are databases such as WordNet. Ontologies can be used for semantic or lexical disambiguation (e.g. 'Java' which is a drink, an island and a programming language) by allowing the user to select the relevant meaning.  After viewing a result link, or result summary, the user has the option to rate the `fitness' of the page, according to their own relevancy function.  As the user progresses through the search, the SVM learns progressively more about the search intent of the user. After a reasonable number of results have been ranked, Tibianna begins to reorder search results based on what it has
2 A potential use of Tibianna is the correction of deliberately misleading metadata.

For a prediction of the potential impact of a news item, an assessment of the "emotional" content of an article can be as valuable as a ranking with regard to personal relevance. DigiMood assesses the mood of any web page. An iconic representation is displayed in the browser once the mood has been established. The learning component predicts the mood of the web page after an initial SVM learning period. The user classifies web pages during this phase, teaching the SVM to match the user's own mood categories. The number of web pages needed for the learning will be determined based on information gathered from a testing phase, and also informed by experimentation conducted in [14]. DigiMood takes the form of a web browser plugin component. When a web page is loaded, the user selects the mood that best describes the page. During the learning period, the URL, page content (stripped of HTML encoding) and emotional state selected are appended to an XML file. Learning starts once a sufficient number of documents are available for training by SVMlight [9]. Once SVM training has completed, DigiMood commences mood classification of pages viewed by the user. The user can adjust the predicted emotion if necessary, thereby providing feedback for further learning periods. 5 Searching for multi-modal background information: The Emily audio mining system. Topic Detection and Tracking (TDT) refers to computerised techniques for finding topically related material in streams of data of various type (audio, video, text, image etc.). Hence, TDT is multi-modal by definition. Emily includes a method for automatically extracting content from speech so that MyNewsWave approaches TDT functionality. Like the other components of MyNewsWave, the method utilises machine learning. Emily has two parts: (1) "background" searching on a topic, i.e. the engine will gather related, multimodal information and (2) topic detection by use of audio data. Standard speech recognition is used to generate a transcript which is then input to a machine learning system that performs topic categorisation. The learning component of Emily is based on the audio data processed during the input stage of the system. It is assumed that there will be at least a 50% error rate in the transcription from audio to text. The outcome of the learning process is to decide whether a specific piece of audio belongs to a topical category. The newly categorised transcription can then be used

[6]

[7]

[8]

as additional input to the background search. Transcripts are also added to the original input document in an attempt to help with retrieving documents within the correct category. Background searches take the topic classifications by Emily of audio or web HTML resources to construct search queries. After determining the topic(s) for a resource, Emily queries WordNet for related terms that are then assembled into Google queries. Several of these searches are run, with the union of the results presented to the user in brief form as a side bar. [9]

6 Conclusions
[10]

MyNewsWave can support journalists, editors and other knowledge workers by providing a range of web search facilities. MyNewsWave ranks search results according to personal preferences and allows for the classification of multimedia documents into topic categories. Furthermore, web pages can be assessed with regard to the mood they express, and even if the user is away from a machine, a speech user interface allows communication. [11]

Acknowledgements
Special thanks to Harald Schuetz from Deutsche Welle (German Foreign Broadcasting Cooperation) who guided this research by providing valuable feedback. Thank you also to Stephen Viller for his comments. [12]

References
[1] [13]

[2]

[14]

[3]

E. Selberg and O. Etzioni, "The MetaCrawler Architecture for Resource Aggregation on the Web," IEEE Expert, vol. Jan-Feb, pp. 11-14, 1997. S. Lawrence and C. L. Giles, "Context and Page Analysis for Improved Web Search," IEEE Internet Computing, vol. 2(4), pp. 3846, 1998. C. Cortes and V. Vapnik, "Support-Vector Networks," Machine Learning, vol. 20(3), pp. 273-297, 1995. T. Joachims, Making Large-Scale SVM Learning Practical. Advances in Kernel Methods - Support Vector Learning: MITPress, 1999. T. Joachims, "Text Categorization with Support Vector Machines: Learning With Many Relevant Features," presented at Proceedings of ECML-98, 10th European Conference on Machine Learning, Heidelberg, Germany, 1998, pp. 137-142. E. Glover, G. Flake, S. Lawrence, W. Birmingham, A. Kruger, C. L. Giles, and D. Pennock, "Improving Category Specific Web Search by Learning Query Modifications," presented at Symposium on Applications and the Internet, SAINT, San Diego, CA, 2001. A. Kruger, C. L. Giles, F. Coetzee, E. Glover, G. Flake, S. Lawrence, and C. Omlin, "DEADLINER: Building a New Niche Search Engine," presented at Conference on Information and Knowledge Management, Washington, DC, 2000. T. Joachims, "Optimizing Search Engines Using Clickthrough Data," presented at ACM Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, 2002. C. Heyer and J. Diederich, "Tibianna: A Learning-Based Search Engine with Query Refinement," (to appear) 7th Annual Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, 2002.

[4]

[5]

J. Tomita and G. Kikui, "Interactive Web search by graphical query refinement," presented at 10th World-Wide Web Conference, Hong Kong, 2001. E. Glover, S. Lawrence, G. Michael, W. Birmingham, and C. L. Giles, "Web Search Your Way," Communications of the ACM, vol. 44(12), pp. 97-102, 2001. S. Lawrence, "Context in Web Search," IEEE Data Engineering Bulletin, vol. 23(3), pp. 25-32, 2000. P. D. Bruza, R. McArthur, and S. Dennis, "Interactive Internet Search: Keyword, Directory and Query Reformulation Mechanisms Compared," presented at 23rd Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, 2000. D. Moldovan and R. Mihalcea, "Using WordNet and Lexical Operators to Improve Internet Searches," IEEE Internet Computing, vol. 4(1), pp. 34-43, 2000.

Visualisation of Document and Concept Spaces
Sam Holden, Judy Kay, Andrew Lum School of Information Technologies University of Sydney, NSW 2006 Australia E-mail {sholden, judy, alum}@it.usyd.edu.au Abstract
Learning Concepts Metadata XX  XXX 9  z Basic - Teaching  - Learner Metadata Agents Model : XXX   XXX 6  9 z ?   Learner   Figure 1: SITS Component Interaction Collections of documents with conceptual relationships exist in many domains. Teaching systems often contain numerous learning resource documents. University policies are often large collections of related documents. The visualisation of the structure of these collections can be useful as it allows the exploration of the collection. This paper describes a graphical interface for visualising document spaces. The interface makes it simple for the user to explore the documents and the relationships between them. Keywords metadata, ITS, ontology extraction, user modelling, visualisation

1

Introduction

If the learner does not understand the prerequisites for a document they wish to use, they must learn those prerequisites. This involves viewing documents which teach those prerequisite concepts. If there are yet more prerequisites which are needed then the process will continue in a recursive manner. Doing this manually would be complicated and tedious. Instead, a teaching system should be able to assist the learner. This paper describes a graphical interface for helping a learner explore the document space. The teaching system used to host the interface will be briefly described. Then the visualisation interface will be presented, with a report on a user evaluation. Finally the benefits and some possible improvements to the interface will be discussed. We summarise the current state of this work.

There are large numbers of existing document collections which are valuable resources, but are often difficult to explore. From university course materials on the Internet, to policy documents on a corporate intranet. In the C++ STL domain, for example, there are numerous online resources, from textbooks [3], to short tutorials [5], to programmer reference manuals [8, 7]. The value of these resources to a learner is limited by the difficulty in finding the ones that meet the current learning need, and do not rely on material the learner does not know. In order to make these documents more useful metadata is required. General metadata such as LOM [2] and Dublin Core [1], provides information about the author, type, subject area, etc. When documents are used in specialised contexts, such as learning resources in a course, extra metadata is useful. This metadata indicates prerequisite and outcome information for the documents. With the availability of such metadata, a learner can find out which documents teach the concepts they wish to learn. And also determine which documents are available due to the learner understanding all the prerequisites.

2

SITS

Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

Scrutable Intelligent Tutoring System (SITS) is a teaching system designed to reuse existing learning documents. Figure 1 shows the main components of SITS. The Concepts are the pieces of knowledge that SITS models in the learner model. The concepts are simply a vocabulary; no relationship structure between concepts is used in SITS. For example, in a C++ STL course some of the concepts might be: sort, copy, vector, and list. The Basic Metadata is a database of references to documents. A reference to a LOM format metadata source is associated with the document if it is available. These documents are independent of SITS, and are simply reused by SITS.

The Learning Metadata is metadata relating documents in the Basic Metadata to the Concepts. The Learning Metadata is simply a list of Concepts associated with each Document. The concepts whose understanding is required in order to understand the document are listed as prereq concepts. The concepts that are taught by the document are listed as shows concepts. Finally, the concepts that are referenced by the document, but whose understanding is not necessary in order to make use of the document are listed as uses concepts. The Learner Model uses an evidence-based approach based on um [4] in which evidence that the user knows or does not know concepts is stored. The learner model keeps track of the learner's knowledge of each of the concepts in the Concept vocabulary and also preference information for the learner. The Teaching Agents are the central components of the system. Multiple Teaching Agents exist, though the learner selects a particular one to use at any given time. The Teaching Agent has the task of determining which concept the learner should learn next. Then it needs to choose which document the learner should view in order to progress toward the goal concepts. SITS does not place limits on how teaching agents go about their tasks. They are free to extend the interface beyond the SITS basics.

3

SV - a visualisation-based teaching agent

Figure 2: SV with document SGI: priority queue currently selected. The most visible concepts on the right column - Assignable, LessThanComparable, DefaultConstructable, RandomAccessContainer, Sequence and Container - are the prerequisite concepts the user should know before reading SGI: priority queue. The user can see that they still have to learn the concepts displayed in red - DefaultConstructable, RandomAccessContainer and Sequence. and concept space. For the document column, the colour represents whether the user is ready to read it or not - red means they have not fulfilled the prerequisite requirements, green means they are ready to read that document. Once a document has been read, its colour is changed to yellow and it is indented slightly to the right. The concept column uses green to mean that the user has learnt enough about this concept, and red to indicate that they have not and need to read the relevant documents. As an example, a student Jane wants to read a particular document SGI: priority queue, but the title appears red meaning she has not fulfilled all the prerequisites. She selects it (Figure 3), expanding the prerequisite concepts on the right hand side. The concepts Assignable, LessThanComparable and Container are green, indicating Jane has learnt these concepts. The remaining concepts DefaultContstructable, RandomAccessContainer and Sequence are shown in red, indicating Jane has not yet learn them. She then clicks on the unknown

SV is the tool we have developed to visualise the documents and concepts in SITS. It is a heavily modified version of VlUM [9], a web-based tool for visualising large user models. The VlUM interface is designed as a Java applet which is loaded in a web browser so that the user can view their complete user model. The applet sits in a frame on the left side of the screen, and page contents are shown on the right. SV accepts a graph where each node represents either a document or a concept. Each document connects only to concept nodes representing the concepts that the user must know, i.e. prerequisites, in order to be able to understand that particular document. Conversely, concepts have connections to documents that teach the concept. We use this to enable the user to see the relationships between the documents and concepts associated with them. SV displays the graph in two separate columns, with documents on the left hand side and concepts on the right. Selecting a document will expand the prerequisite concepts. Selecting a concept will expand documents that teach that concept, allowing users to navigate back and forth between the document

Table 1: Think Aloud Results Summary
User User1 User2 User3 User4 User5 5 5 7 # Docs 5 3 Notes Found the colours too similar Used back button to observe changes to learner model Found interface easy to use Got confused between documents and concepts Liked the way the green increased as you progressed

Figure 3: SV with concept DefaultConstructable currently selected on the right column. We can see that the document SGI: DefaultConstructable teaches this concept. The user is ready to read this document (as it is in green), indicating they already know the prerequisite concepts. concept DefaultContructable to see what documents show this concept, causing the SGI: DefaultConstructable document to be displayed (Figure 3 on the preceding page). Jane decides she will read the SGI: DefaultConstructable document as it is green. This example shows how users can navigate through their user model and explore the relationship between the documents and the concepts they teach. A SITS teaching agent has been implemented which used VlUM by generating a VlUM consumable RDF file of the metadata. Additional elements were added to the RDF for typing of the components and the relationships. Each component is designated as either a document or a concept by its own componentType element.

4

Evaluation

A think aloud experiment was performed with the recommended five users [6] for a basic qualitative evaluation of usability. All the users were undergraduate students studying computer science. The users were asked to pretend they were a particular user who wanted to know about the priority queue concept. For the purposes of the ex-

periment they were told to assume they learnt all concepts shown by a document when viewing it. All the users managed to complete the task successfully. The colour and positional meanings of the concepts and documents in SV were explained to the users at the beginning. A user model was constructed and each user was asked to use the system to `learn' the priority queue concept. The document, metadata, and user model were designed so that there were two documents that could be viewed to learn the priority queue concept. Both those documents had prereq concepts which the user model indicated were not known. The first document had six prereq concepts, half of which were not known. Learning all of those required documents for which yet more prereq concepts were required because they were not initially known. The second document that taught the priority queue concept had only one prereq concept. That concept was not known according to the user model. It was possible to `learn' the priority queue by viewing two documents. None of the users tried to find a quick path through the documents. Instead they all headed depth first down the first path. Table 1 shows the number of documents each user viewed in order to `learn' the priority queue concepts. As well as a representative comment on the users experience with the interface. The main difficulty that all the users had was getting lost and losing track of the sub-task they were performing. This occurred after reaching a depth of about two prereq concepts (which involved clicking on a document, then a prereq, then another document, and then clicking another prereq). The users could not remember exactly why they had selected the concept. This was resolved in all cases by clicking the back button a few times and regaining their bearings. The fact that the users not actually using the system to learn, probably meant they weren't paying much attention to the actual concepts which would account for some of this problem. A real learner would probably not forget which concept they were trying to learn. The users gave many suggestions as to why they got lost. The lack of a visible history indication to show the path they had followed was one complaint.

wanted document. The interface does not provide a way to find out that a long sequence exists, other than clicking on the concepts and documents in the chain. The user test showed that the interface is understandable and usable. It also identified some areas for improvement for the future. The strength of the interface is that it provides a useful view of a set of documents and concepts. It allows the user to explore the document structure without having to understand the entire, possibly complex, graph. A number of ideas for improvements came out of the user testing. Such as using a different colours for the documents and concepts, to keep the distinction between them more obvious. The horizontal indentation of the documents could be used to indicate how suitable the documents are based on external metadata preference information, a certain author might be liked by a particular learner, for example. Indentation could replace colour entirely, by having items which are currently green near the center, and items which are currently red near the edges.

References
[1] Dublin core metadata element set, IETF RFC 2413. [2] IEEE 1484.12.1-2002, learning objects metadata. [3] Bruce Eckel. Thinking in c++ 2nd edition (volume 2). http://www.mindview.net/Books/TICPP/. [4] Judy Kay. The um toolkit for cooperative user modelling. User Modelling and User-Adapted Interaction, Volume 4, Number 3, pages 149­ 196, 1995. [5] Jak Kirman. A modest stl tutorial. http://www.cs.brown.edu/people/jak/proglang/cpp/stltut/tut.html. [6] A J Nielsen. Estimating the number of subjects needed for a thinking aloud test. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Volume 41, Number 1­6, pages 385­397, 1994. [7] P. J. Plauger. Dinkum c++ library reference. http://www.dinkum.com/refcpp.html. [8] Silicon Graphics Computer Systems. Standard template library programmer's guide. http://www.sgi.com/tech/stl/. [9] James Uther. On the Visualisation of Large User Model in Web Based Systems. Ph.D. thesis, University of Sydney, 2001.

Another was that when a document is selected, the prereq concepts are indicated, but no indication of the shows concepts is provided. The lack of that indication caused some users to click back to remind themselves why they have clicked on the document. One user confused the document and concept columns. They suggested column headers as a simple solution to the problem. Column headers would also be useful in providing the users with an indication of whether the concepts being indicated, are prereq concepts of the selected documents, or show concepts of the indicated documents. All the users completed the task in a few minutes, and most of that time was spent waiting for the web server to respond to page requests. The VlUM applet itself was fast enough, with SITS being the speed bottleneck. This is due to the fact that SITS has not been optimised for speed. Simple caching techniques will speed SITS up, in a later test a speed improvement of about 20x was realised by caching just one database query between sessions. The entire graph they were exploring contained 171 documents, 155 concepts, and 620 edges, all of which were accessible from within SV. The think aloud experiment indicated that the interface is usable, since all the users succeeded at the task without any assistance. SV provides an interface to a complicated graph which is fast to learn and use.

5
The system enables the user to explore a range of documents that explain the concepts the user is interested in. The user simply selects a concept they are interested in and suitable documents are indicated along with a colour indication of whether the user model indicates the user understands the required prerequisites. The users understood this, and successfully performed these tasks. One user was confused for a short time by the fact that green concepts are known, whereas green documents are ready to be used, and not already used. The system also enables the user to explore the concepts which are required to understand a document. The user simply selects the document and those concepts are indicated, and coloured to indicate how well the user understands them. All the users has no problems understanding and using this prerequisite indication. Navigation through the documents and concepts makes it easy to find the documents that teach concepts that are required by the document the user wants to view. The main limitation of the interface is that it is not suited to long sequences, such as when the user needs to study a chain of five or six documents deep in order to learn a concept required for the

Discussion and conclusion

È Ï Å " ©$ ©  Ë P Är ¡ ¥ti ©  ´ i ¯ e ´  §  ¡ ©«" ¤D § 1 ¯ i ¬ µ f © ¤« i ¡ ¾W © ¥mA Ã ® ´f " ¤ §® °i  i ¯ $ ´ « ² ¡  ¨ 0 ¢ £ " ¤ § ¿« ¨ 0 ¢ £ ³ Î r Í Ì ÊH ½ · ¼ ³ » S º ´e· § ® ¡a  A Ë ³ Ë ÊeÉ È  e Ç Æ· Å   Ä  © ÃeD § ¬ ® © ±Ãi® ´f  ¡© §  ´ W ¢  ¨A © f ¯ ¨ ¢He ±  §® °   Ã ® ¢ ± i ¢  ´ ¢«i ¨ ª¹¦ °t ½ ©«f ¡ ¨ ©&t ¸f © ¨® ´Â   ¿i © ª« ¤ $ ¡  ²Á §i ± ¬«® ¡i  © ¯ i ¯ e ´ § ¶« P ¡ ¤i  V ¾ t ¥i © ´i © f ªy ¤ A ¡ i ¯ ´D À  ¶f ¡" ¤ § « ¿ ¨ ¢0x £  ¯f ©e ¡ i § ¦ ¾H ½ · ¼  » r º e ± §¹ ¨ ©&¸tf © ¡ e £ · ¢ i ©  ´  ¢ ® ´ ¶P¡©°fA ¨  µ f ¢ ¡ ¡r¥ti © ´ e £ ³ ¢ ¤t« ©y ¡  § i ¡ e ¯  §f © ¨ ²® ±e ±  §® °i  5 ¯ ® ¢f  ¨1 ©  ¬ " ¤D § « ª ¤f ©e ¨ y § ¦ ¥ ¤ £ef ¢ ¡    %9F ón û (é©ó(ìó»Fê©óì )5r ó Âþ ï ïr î ÂþD ï5 é ÁëÂðv ï î ©íì5»ë ê Áé ð êË ë¡ øn ù Óé ð ! ° û Âð ï ©îïø ©ó5 ì ëg ír ó Âþï ù5 r é î óÁ¡ õ9   ën ó (é(óË ó ïFP ó8  r ø éuÓë©ðeïp û¡ ó¡ é5 é (ë©û ì Âó ï éÁG ð (ì ó ùuu î ©ë¡ ì ÂþÁøÁð¡ õ9  © î ïø ó Âë¨ ïr ø ü5 ù î Áó¤ õ é î û 5)órÂþ¨ ïv ïn î Âþ7 ïr ø5 é î óg¨ í °ø¡ ð7 þ %r¥  5 ü ©ë5 ìD ÿ ìu ë éuëIø(ìóP  D î5 ì ëA # Â ó ÓïÂðr ø 5Ë ó   î r ù é3 î óÁFõ°ûÂðÂï ìî E ø 5¡ ót é î)ÂëS ï ù óu¥ ! Á é Óð" õ ïø5p î Óó õ ï î °øÅ ð (íÂóÓïðS¡ ýý D ñ5 é î Áó¡ õ F íî 2H45 ó ìu»ëê  é5Á ë Âð ï î Âíìu»ë ê Óé ð5 ê" ë øIu ï ég ó í5 ÿ Iî»ì" ê ì¡ ó Âþï5G ë ÂëD ï é5ÁëÂðï  2ûr ó¡ é5 é (ëG û îp ö ï 4&Âó ï éuëFË û ïÓFð°ûÁð¡ õ3  4&D ó é5E î5 ó ôr îD þ é Âóï5 êS ë$ ) ¡ ó7 þ % n & # 5 é ÂëIø(ìP ó g ó í5ÂîG ø¡ ó ©þÍ ï í5©ëì»ê ÁøÁõ ð î í(D ó ørüøI(ìóu ô ø (ór û é Iî(ì©óï ï3 ü P ó1  îI ï ì5 ó !e°û7 ð Óór õ {5 í¡ î &4ó ì »ëêu 5 é" ë óFn û (é©ó(ìó» ê Áés ðr ù é î¡ ÿ éÓr ð Iþ©ûv ï îÀ í Âíìu»ëê ìn ó  © ë7 ï ©î ï¡ îù  ê ëP õp î óÉ ù ï î ©ó5 ìG ÿE î¡ ó Áù ðv ô ©ë¡ ìx  5 ) ¡ ó ©þt ï Âë ø öu&)ûr é¡ ó ü$ E © ó »ì ê þ5Áÿ¡ ðþ ït  îS ór í üÓu õ ë5 ô5 þ Áÿ¡ ðg þ h) õ5 ó ÁôÂðv ï îI ìn î{  u í ëF¤ û Óé7 ð5 ì îP ó¥  1  1 î$ ) ¡ ó7 þ  %&H # © ë7 ï (ìó»Fê©ó1 ì$ ) ¡ ó ÂþË ïp ø5 ó5 ÿ îra  $  É ó8  órÂ þÉ ï ørÂü©ø ì5 óô ø(íÂóïÓs ð¡ ý ýÉ ñ Áó¡ õ F í¡ î 4&B ó ì5»ë»ê  © ø ø óF û ©ë¡ ì8  r ù5 é î5 ó ÿ5r î é î í Âëï ìóÓÂð5 øp î ó)©ó ì î$ ) ¡ ó Âþï Âë ø5 ö ©ó¡ ì ÂüFïûrÂü©ìeïR ø5 õ îrÂé ì Âó ï ÁéðR õ î Óír ð éÓg ðí  ©þï ¨ ði  éuÓ ë ©ðv ï î Âíìu»ë ê ÁéB ð ê57 ë ©ø ï (éóg5 í5 ÿ ©îì» ê õÓ5 õg î ÂíG ø ©ó ìî $ ) ¡ ó7 þ 5  p ø5 ó5 ÿ ©îï é îv ôu ù îgr ÿ éÓð 2yD  Á ë õÁ5 õ »ëê¡ ó ÂþÉ ï ø5n î þ øru é Óë©ðïv în û U©ð ï¡ ë éP õ °îFð û Âë1 ø é5) ë¡ ÿ Áéð©ør ø Fü ûr ë %A f e p bu õ ë ©ë7 ïv ïr î þIs ûn ó9  © î Âï(ìóue!ûÁ7 ð Áé ð Óôõ ' ¡ ó ©þï Q )    ù ©óv ï îI(ì¡ ó é ó5 ÿ r ø5 é ÁëÂð ï (în û hUÂðï5¡ ëÍ é ùr5 é² î $ # " ø óÁr õU ¥ # ¡ ý ý ñ  " ) ì î íg¡ í ü ý ÂóÓï ð6 ý   úEÀ ñ ¡ ÿ ÓéÁðÁõ5 õ ëP  Q )  ù ©ó(ìórÂþv ï î »ÿ ør5 é ëÁÂð ï (în û hUÂð5 ï¡ ë égÂóv ï îrP ù¥  S ü5 ó5 ÿ îr  5  Ë ó  £Â ó5 ì î 5 é ÁëÂð ï î Âíìu»ë ê ÓéË ð êë ù éÓ n ð !ÁøðrÂþï 5 ê ë ø óÁ¡ õF   í¡ î &4s ó õ °îÂðïÓ¡ ð éÁº ð S ó íu ëý $ % © ø ì¡ ó Âþ5 ïÀ ë þ©ï ¨ ð ©óv ï îÁû¡ ð érü g í5 í ë(û Âëò ï  ùr ó5 é ÿÁðp ø óù  ö ï (é©óïuÁéð5 õ îÁ(ð û Âëø î þ©ï ¨ ð v ïr î ©þï 0)Âõ5 ì îÁr õ üF°ûÂðÂï ìr î   ö é5ÁëÂð ïg î ©í5 ì ë»¡ ê éÓð Áó õ )eïWø3 2 éuÓ ë ©ðv ï (îP û U©ð ï¡ ëé ÿ Áé©ð(ì¡ ¡ ó ©þv ï îuÿ 5 é ë  ø ÂóørFü û »ëê h)©õïu é Âó©ì¡ ì (ü û ¡ ÿ Áé¡ ðQ   ) ï Âëï5Âër ì ¡ ìü B  ¢ ¤¥      is v ¢ t¥  R  ¤   e   W  ¨ ¢ ¤  r ¦ H    P    ¥ ¨ Ë y  Q   ¢ ¤  3 % uS5 é ÁëÂðeïp û ó ýÓéð&©ó¡ ì ÂüïF û ÂóÓï¡ ð IþûI ì î (íÂóï ø )G ø órÂþ1 ïr ù éî t5 é ëÁÂðeïp û ó§ ý Áéð¡ ï 5Fón û5 é ëF§ û ¥   ü3 þ 5 é ÁëÂð ï îg©í5 ì »ë¡ ê ÓéS ð¡ ó Âþï n ó 0ð©Fì©û ø óù  ó g C % 7 ¥  üþ éuÓ ë ©ðv ï î ©í5 ì ë» ê Áéð 6  és î5 øî  í Âóï ø )s ø¡ ì ü5 ë¡ ÿ Áé¡ ð 0Âð(ìÂûø & 2  ó ù1©ë¤ ï (éu ó1 ! © îs ïu ó ôr îG þË ó  Â ë¡ ø ö5 é ÁëÂð ï îu(ÿ©ó5 ì ÿu ÿ îE ø 5¡ ó¤ ér ù éu5 ë$ ) ón ø¡r ù (é©óï4&s ó ïFÂóø)©ó¡ ì Âü ï î ó»E êr ì5 üs ë ï¡ ü WFöH  7e5 ì Âë ï îu ÿ Âóìu5 ÿ ÿ îE ø 5¡ ó é6 î ùpóÓ¡ õv  í(Â ó ø©ó ì )0Áõ õ °îÂðÓï¡ ð ÓéðRP óQ   ) ï ©ë ï ©ë¡ ìy  r ø ü 54E óv   ï é(©ó©ì¡ ì üFûr ó7 þ % P d ! ìuÉ ë   ï îrÂþ ï þ©ï ¨ ð ùp¡ ó (éP ó¥  9  îrþ v ïn î¨ þ  ørÁ é ð °î¡ õ3  & 4  óp  5 é ÁëÂðeïp û ó ýP 705 õ ©îÂï5 ìP ëy   õ °îFð û Âëø 6

î ) ù óP¥  ¥ üË ùÉ óv  I þ Áû¡ ð¨ þ9    (ª ¸ Á¥¼  Fª¿ Ò  ù ÁóÁõ õ (îË ûn ó Q)5 ï ëÂ ï ©ëì¡©  r î êë ï (ég  ó¡ í £Óë õ ó5 ô ó ù ó¡©þïg5 éi ëA e uS b  ù ÂóÂï5 ìP ë 5©óE ìË óg  t sH 2 ý78 r ú q ï q 3 % pS5 é ÁëÂðïep û ó ýÓéð¤©þ ï 5 ót ù ©ó5 ì ëgí¤Óéð7©ør ø (üûÂ°øðt ùÉ ói  I þ °û¡ ð þ¨ " 7 ør5 é ÁëÂð ï (în û UhÂðï5¡ ë¨ é õ °îðF û Âë ø  ù Âó°øðÓ5 õr î üÂ ï 4&ó© ï5 é Fëû 6 Óõ5 õ (î3 û óËF   ïr î þ¨ ø ó5 p ÿ în é î í eö«u ª ©¨¥ ² ¦  ù ÁóÁõ õ (î' û5 öP óQ   ) ï ë© ï ©ëì¡g   ï (é©óÂìì¡(ü) û¡ ìü B %fA e dc b Á éð n ù¡ é5 ü »ës êP ó a5 é (îE û eïp û eó1 @ ë©¡ ì8  ¡ ó þ©ï Áéð ï (éóg(íóuÓôõuë5  ô ÁéR ð (ìÂóørg ü5 é¡ ë ÁõðIîïF ó¨ ù ©ó5 ìg ë í ö ïÂ5 ìi ë &`s ó¡ ÿ Áéð¡Q   ) ï ë© ï ë©¡ ì  ï (éó©ÂììrFüû ¡ ì5 ü ëÏÂþÓï¨ ðY   ù¡ ó ©éì((óûr5 é (ë û 0)Óõð© ì î ÁíðÂr ìR  ° øÀ ð  ìn ó9  r î °ø¡ ð þ7X  %Wn ù érV U Ë ó v ïr î¨ þT  ëÂ ï Âór ø5 é ëPp ø ÂóìÍÁéð p øn óQ   ) ï ë© ï ë©¡ ì ¡ ÿ ÁéÂðï ø ©óï r ù5 é¾ î ¡ ÿ Áé ðD ) ëÁ¡ õ$   ó) ùn ö¡ ÿ Óé©ðeïr û ü©Âìïr øu é Fëû )HR  ë° ø õî n ù éî  ër ù 0)Âõï é Âóì©¡ ì üF¤ û Iø(ìÂóørs ü õ °îÂð ï (é©óïP ë Sv ïr î þ¨R  ùr é IîïeIø(ì ón ù¡ é üÂëï ø Óóð¡r p ù Âüïø(ó5 û °î¡ õQ  !Pu ìÉ ë Ir ÿ Óé ðD ) Á ë¡ õ F(íóÔÂþ5 ïn ëG  H ) GI þ5 û îÂë¡ ì1  î õ (î°ûðÂÁì¡ 5 ðF  ( í3 ó é5î 5 ó !9©î) ï ó C©9 % 0 )( õ Âó ïr î ü E$ óu ù î ©óì5g ëE íp ø óÂ¡ ì ©üeïûr©üìÂïø õ Áî(ð 5 û Âëøaì5»ëÀ ê u ï ér5 ü ëF û5 û îa ï þ5ÁÿS ð í Âó5 ìË î ïê5ëø D  r ë þ ó©5 ì Áëõ¡3  & 4 ó ùr5 é î Âó ïu î ÁÿÂðï ø5 ó ô Áéð ©ëï óP9  ¡ ëþ  ó C 9 %  )Ó ï ð ÁôÂðFï5 û î ÿrÓéð© ìr î þÂø 3 2 u é ëÓ©ðv ï î ©í5 ì »ë ê ÁéÙ ð  é î¡ í üþ r ÿ Óé©ðïu ì ën¥    üÅ ø ï5 üP ë1  ¦ î IþIû ì î óÂ ø ó©ì ïFr û ür ù éuFë û ë©ï ÿ¡Óéð")Âì¢ ï é5 ë Áø ð ©ó5 ì »ë(êóÂ ì¡ ó Âþ² ï r ø Fü û »ëê ¡ ìü B % e A ï û óe¥ @ 9  ë  í óÂï ø )g øî øS u î 0)ÂõïF û ©óÓì¡ ð1 ù5 é ÁëÂð5 ï ë¡É é ï îrÂþï ¡ ÿ ÓéÁðÁõ(õ ó ù ëg í êË ër ø éuÓëð©v ï ©îÓïg ð ÓíÁðõ r ó Âþï  ù ó©(ì5 ó ôv(ëÂû°øð¤ ù ùr5 é1 î °ùÂõìuÉ ë8  ¡ ó ©þ ï Óé¨ ð eïu û pîê ©ðï5 ì3 î é¨ î5 ø) î 7¥  u ü ëÂu ì ÿ6  ê¢ ë é5ÁëÂð5 ï¡ ë éógu í ëø¤ ê ë óFr û é óÂïÁø ð 54óz¡ ó Âþï  ùg ó¡ í üÂøÂu ø¢ î Iþ°û¡ ð þ¨ é5ÁëÂðv ï Iîì5P ë1  ° î Áõ5 õ ëF û  ù ©óÂìï(é(óûÌ3 2 u é Óë©ðv ï î©í5 ì »ë ê Áé§ ð ¡ ï ü5P ë 1î IþIû ì î óÂ ø ó©ì ù ©óïer  û ü¡r ù é5(ëû 0)Âõr ø5 ü Áë ð (ôó©¡ ì(  óu ô îr¢ þ r ø ü¾ ê¦ ë Iþu û î' &%$ # I û Fïó ø "!ì5Ë  ë ïF¡ ó& é õ °îFð û Âë& ø ö ø ÁóÂðÓï¡ ð¡ é) üS í íuFë& û (ör ø5 ü ©ë5 ì »ÿ  p ø óÂ¡ ì ©üeïûr©üìÂïø õ Áî(ðûÂëÍ 5 ø r ù5 é îÅu é Óë©ðv ï î í©5 ì »ë ê ÁéÍ ð (é óÉ ó (ïn ó  r ø5 é ÁëðÂFï û¡ ó é¡u é Fë¾ û r ó Âþï Âó ï îuÁÿÂðï ø óuôÁé ð ©ëz ï ó© ìl î ©øìu¡ ë Âþ ï5 ü îÀ¡ ó þ© ï  ê ë r ø é©(ìFón û5 é Fë û ó¡7 þ ¢  ¢ ¡   ¤ ¥P ¢© ¨ ¦§¥ ¤  £ ÿ¡ÁéÂð5 ìr î þ3 ý é5ÁëÂðv ï î í©5 ì »ë ê éWx ç5 õ Áî(ð û ën ý ö ø© ï (ég ó¡ í (ü û ëú  ù ÂóÁøÁð õ îru é ëøI(ìó'3 ÷ ö õv î (ôÁóð©ÂìïFE óò ñ 5 é ÁëÂð ï îÂíu ì »ëêWéè ç B æ ån äã x â á3 à ß (Ê«¡v ³ p¶¯ee«¥r(ª Þ I¤Â¿ · ±©(¥F«¥Â· i Çv ³ ±A(®W¥I « e¬§ « r ¥ ¤§  µ² ¶ Â¥ · ªFI¿W¥ ¯ I¤Â¿v · ± ¥¡»¤§  F«I¥p¸e¯F·(¿F«5 ¥ Çri Çv ³± Ð©ÝÂÜÎ Ò 1 Û ÚEÙ Ø v  ±×©Ç¥Wr  (³(¥e«©¥P · ½ÓÖ Õ r ¥ ½©¬v  W¶v  ¶Âi · ½Ô  (ªp ¸ Ó¥¼  (ª¿ Ò (·p¥¯Äe¼v · ±I§ ¥ ¡ ¥ »¤²  ¶W  ¥¡©½¬v  ¶Wv  ©¶·Pg ½ °« ¯ »¤  v « Ñ³Ä¯D ¼ Ð¤i  Ì½u ¥ Ç ¥Â ·g ¶ ® ³¯ «¡ ³ p¶¯  ©±Ë ¿ È ¯ P ¶) ³ ¼vp±(¯ ¿ (¶ « ÇI(¥°«¯Ä ¼r ± ªu©¨¥Ìn v ³ I¶ ¿ e«I¥p¸e¯(·(¿e«u ¥ Ç F·r ¥ ½©r ±½ ¥¡i ¤ £ Ê5¬p ¯ Ã¯(¿5Ï ±  Æ ³¯ev ·r ± ¤ÂÌ«r Îv ³ p¶¯v  ±e®v · F¶p µ ³¦ ¯ v ³ ± ® ªÍ ¤ W¶r  ³¯ ¤IÂ¿ · ©±(¥«FÂ¥s ·v · ¶FµSv ³ p¶¯v 5 ± Çi ³v ª ¶F¨ µG ± «Ë ± Fu ¿ ±DÌ¶s  °«t ¯ ¥r©½¬v  ¶Wv  Â¶i ·Ë ½ ¥¡»¤ eµt ¶ (¥v «¡ ¶ ½·i ª ½¡ ¥ ¤i) £ (Ê¡ « ³ p¶¯  ±IÉ ¿ È ¯vP ¶ ³i ¼ p±F¯p ¿ (¶s « IÇ(¥°«Ä¯v ¼r ± ªu  ¨ÂW¥r  ³ ©¶W¿´ F¥°«n ¯v ³ ±Æv ·Å ¶ Çiv ³a ± ¥(ÆP ± ³±g®ÅÄ¬(¼v ¥ Ã¯  ±Âv · I¶5 ¸ Á±¼v ¼ I¶À ¿ I«F·(¥ « ª¾P « ½ (¼¥¡¤ ¡  ± ¤»º   ¹r ¸ ªa ¤ ³vp¶¯v  ± ®ev · ¶F µ ³¯¦ ´ v ³² ± °«¯$(®W¥I « e¬ «  « ªu©¨¥ § ¦ ¡ ¥i ¤£ P  ¢R¡   5 &    wP`W' P wp i f  e5 r cD ir  e f c " v q fhrv   tG h q t5 c wr uP t `G V5 q  r V5  WVU     xPi w gi v' g' d vu s |1   u j | (m  x  u |B mB  p op h m ¤ o   |  o' hp u h | mxt dD q hiegf  }  }g ~} musu | {rp gt hz y n xi w gi v gut sr q i d gp on m kl ji h egB f ed  ` tWU5R f w U"3 s f  c" s v q fr h )  x f u ws  qxv R  w t 5 b FfWD U3 y cxr wv uP ta ` s Xr q pi5 h fgedB cP ba ` XYWVE UT %¨ D §B £S %S  ¨C 9¤ G #)  FR  %&Q # " !)  ¤  (PIHG 9 F#E D CB A  ¤ @ "   (93 8 §76 £ 5 4  3 2 1 ©0 ¡ )  (' & %$ # " ! ¤   ¤  ©¨ §¦ £ ¦ ¥ ¤ £¢ ¡  

 3 } H ~ H ~ v } s 9 | { z 1 x y  x w H j $  £  uv h n s 0 f  gH& f e x e  d  u  W  Q s 1 q   d  n  q o t s jW   Q  r  m l d j q p o n       W  lm¥ j  k  9  a  d j i   v  c h Q  h f  Q  0 fH g 5 f " xe  dv      9        Q8  3       £1  A   &  y x w

ö ø ó(©ûr ì ü5Âë7 ø ï (é©ó(ìi ó h` ð ù í5©ë»ìD ê éuÓë©ðv ï îÂíìu»ë ê éÁð  êË ë ïu é óg(í5 ó5 ÿ îr é îí ï(éó©(ìór5 þ Fëû ùr é î35 é ÁëÂð ï ©îìu(ÿ©óu ï ÁéG ð¡ ó ©þ¨ ï °øð 5 ì pî ê ë ø e!û5°î¨ õr øu ü ëÓ ð ô9  ë é q % # é5Á ë Âðv ï î ©í5 ì ë» ê Áé ð Âøp ø¡ ó (é©ó ì7 îi   î ¡ ÿ Óé©ðv ï îI5 ì ÿ Âó ï éÓ ð øg í Âóï ø )ø (öø(í©óeï ø P)ø õ Iîïìun ë £(öp ø Fóû5n î  ø "!5 ìË ëm  p ù Âóì5r î þø8  ¡ ø ù ó¡ ós é óp ø ó¡Âþ ï êë ©øïep ûn ó P5 øt î ï (é©ó(ìi ó `¡ ð1 ù¡ ÿ Áéð©ø ø ©ó ì¡ ù ùu î (é ón óu  ó5 ô îr) þ ó5 ù î û ós ù eïu ø Áîõ ó Âþï (ì5 ¡ óv ôG ë ù ó5Áôõ5u ë (ôó"u ó ôr î þ þI°û¡ ð¨ þ³  © ø¡ ï 5óFn û5 é ëFP û ê ëu ó¡ ÿ é îIì q 5 % I ø ï54Âóï5 é (ëû p ù Âóv ï °î(õ©óìÌ£ 2 " ! ì5Ë ë {r ù é î h2 õ °îFð û ÂëøÓé5 ð ©îÂï(ìFóG û ©ëS ïr ù¡ éu ü ën ÁøÀ ð IþûÁ¡ ð¨ þR  é5Á ë Âðv ï î ©í5 ì ë» ê éÁr ð ¨ é D¡ ë é ! 0)¡ õ5 é ëgg í5 í (ël û ©ë ï ©ø ø óF û5 ûî ù ó(¡ p ó éÉ ó H5 ö ©óv ï Iîì5P ë1  ° î ÓõõuëFg û Âë ï ©ø ì Âó ïr ü{  íuF ës û ón ø) ü 0)5 õ¡ ÿ éÁÂðø5 î ©óìFn û éÓð Ë óx  ø q  % " !5 ìË ëc  Â ë ï p ù ó ù ó¡ ó é3É ó   ï îrÂþïlu é ëÓ©ðv ï î Âíu ì »ë ê Áé3 ð ó¡Âþï u ó ÿr î5 é îgí1Âë¨ ïn ø' ü ê5¤ ë þI5 û îó 5 ì »ëê Óï¡ õ (ü û YX ðG ù ©óì5g ëE íp ø óg5 í ëFp ûn ó  ðï ör"7ï év î ô óÓ õ Âóì 6 u þ Óÿ ðÉ ó  ï üut ë Âëï'n ø éÓu ð (ÿP ó©  e 7 ïu5 év î (ôÁó(õ©óÂìÁìð 6 ¡ ó þ©) ï ùr éî øD E  © ë5 ìG ÿu é ëÓ©ðïv î ©í5 ì »ë ê Áé¡ ð êº ë D  r ëW  ¡ ó Âþï ø q $ %  ï (éóg(íóu ÿ îr5 é îG í5 é ÁëÂðï 2 îÂ 1 í ìu»ë ê éÓ' ð5 õr î é5Âë©ø ìn ó ê6 ë (íÁó¡ õ£  Â ë¡ ìt  5 é ëgg í5 í ëF û¡ ó ©þE ïp ø ó©ø ø ©ó ìù Q 2 ù5Ù î íÂóï ø P)3 ø ¡ ó7 þÂ  A % ( ì ór¡ é é îg í ïu é Âó ì¡ ó þ5(ëº û l î ÁéS ð Áø5 õr î ü °ù ð ôÁ ðù 2 éÓ 3 ð Q ) 8  ør5 é ÁëÂð ï (în û hUÂð5 ï¡ ë" é5 õ îÁ(ð û Âë§ ø  ù ÂóøÁÁð õ îr©ü ï 4&Âóïu é ëFE û êº ë 5 é ÁëðÂ ï ©îï 2 ( ¥ é óÂ ø ©ó¡ ìS  ùr5 é î ï(ég ó í(u ó ÿr î é5g în ír ö¡ ÿ Áé©ð(ì¡ ó ©þv ï îuS ÿ¡ ó ©þ¨ ï ø ©óv ï îIï ÁðÓõ(ð5 û pîê v ïr î ©þï 7 ¥   üz þ u é ëÓ©ðv ï î Âíìu»ë ê Áéð 6 5 é§ î óPÂ  © ëD ï øÁí ð îr ø ü &4ó  % i  # V  © ó¡ ìü 2 Á 1 ÿ ð  ó óøm « ªuÂ¨¥)7 ¦x ö ùpÓóÁõ õ îû  í Âóï ø P)Ô ø 5¡ ó§ é r î ÂþÓï¨ ðF  ø¡p ù (ó¡ óé Âóør ó Âþ ï5 ì »ë ê (ì©óïv î ûl©ëz ï  ù ©ó ï F(í©óïv ïº î 5 ó ôn î þ § ó C 9 % Â ór ø ü 5 ó Áôðø 2øur î  © ó5 ì ëg7 í5 ì ë»D ê ùË óD  Ó ë Áõ õî  ïr î ÂþïÅ í Âóï ø )É ø "#p ø óFIû¡ ì ü5Âë¤ ø5 é ëÁÂðv ï îí  2 ìu» ë ê Óéð)Âóìuëg1 í¡ ÿ éÁÂð ï ©îìun ë "5 ì ë(r û ÓéÉ ð êS ë ór ø é ó ø¡ ó ©þï Áé»ðF(ì¡ ó5 ù îu©ë¡ ì ù5 r é î3A # © ó¡ ì ©üïer û ©üÂìïø e¯·vp¶e¯·iº ½ ±lÂøp ø óÓz õ ÿrÓé ð ô îr þ ê ë ór ø é ó ø ó¡Âþï Áé»ðv  ( ì óÁ¡ õF  íÓÂ ðD ø3 î  ù ó¡ ó é Âë ïp ù óg(í(óÂóø )ïÓ¡ ð¡ é ü)g í5 í ëF û ì(Âór ø üE¡ ìü B T ¢  Q ¢HY ¡ ¢  C P ¨ U E ¤¥  B ¢    S "¤ R ¢   ¨ W   % ° 5 ø õ î5 ëD ÿ þIIû ìp î óp ø Âóì ì5 ¡ ü ë&Iþ5 û îÂë¡ ì1  î © ëP ï øi ) î7  5 ó ôÁÂð ï îr©é(ìÂóïÓ õ î (ì ó °ùðn ø5 é ëFt ûn ù é î ï (éógí 1 2 ëg¤ í) î ìu»ëêgóør5 ür î  ° ù¡ õ ü5¡ ë Âþ1 øË óv  u ö óøur î 5¡ ó ù (ëû øIï º ð r ù é5î 5 é Áÿðø & 2  ó ùË©øÓïð1©þ ïP ë3   ö ï¡ ï¡ ü 5óÁÂõÂï ï üF û¤ ý ÂþÓï¨ ð  ¡ ó ü ÁéÂð ï5 é (ëû1 é îr©þ" ï ì¡ ó Âþ ï î©ì ïr v î ©þ ï ïep ø5 ó5 ÿ ÿrü ø ©ël ï  ù¡ ó éÁ¡ ð v5 í ëFû ©øìuÂëïF5 û pî3 ê Âó ø¡ ó ©þs ï ê ë&Óõõ q %£ ó ù Fë¤ û5 é ÁëÂð ï (î°ûÓð¡ õ1  ¤ î 5Ë ó  ïÁ õ¡ ð¡ ü ¹2{5 í Âëïør(ü û¨ éD  ¨ ë¡ ìu ü ëg¡ ÿ éÓÂðørü  êë 5 ùp î ÂóïørÁéË ð$ # 1 I© ó ìº î ¥ C $   ó C   ø "!ì5Ë ë 5g ó í Iîì»1 ê$  É ó8  órÂ þï 5 ês ë ó¡5 éë ÿ éÓÂðør7 r ü óu ø îr5¡ ó ù (ë û¡ ì üu" ë ïu é óg(íóÁ¡ õF  Ó í ð Âót ì ©ëï7Óó¡ õ 0Âðr ø (éÂóg ø ù óg(í ó óø ï¾ ð r ù é î ùÁ õ ór U ¡ ó Âþz ï  ù5 ó$ ) 5 ó ©ô¡ ì Âü¤ ø ï5 ø °îr õ u ùr î þ Ë ó  óFr û Áéð¤ ø ìp î5 ó) ó ÂþïÓé3 ¡ ð )0 õp ù ó5"! ì î3 í  ù óuv ô Âër ì{  Á í ð 5 ùr ît þ Âï5 ìP ë¥  ¥  Â üs ø ï é(g ó¡ í£  ëÓ õ5 óô & 2  ó ù¤5óËa  u é¡ ë Âþ ï )  ÷d  P ! ìuÉ ë$  g ó í îI»ìË ê ï éS ór í9  ëÁ( õ5 ó ô ó¨ ù¡ ì5 ü¤ ë ©þï ¨ ð ù Âó p ï ér î þIn û (éÂóÁø ð) ù¡ ÿ Óéðgu í ëF û óPg  Â ë øÁ5 õE î Âó ìÉ ó   ó  C f %Ó õ õÉ ó 5 ø" î °ø õ î5 ëÿ Iþ©ûì5îÂóø©óG ì¡ ì üuG ë ïu ìn ë¥    ü ø©ë¤ ï P)ì5Âî©ø ø (ó û¡ ó ég©ó5 ì ëg3 í ¡ ÿ ÁéS ð íuFëp û ón ©ó(ìóË ø óÁÂðÓïÓðõÁFðûupîê Âó ø¡ ó7 þ i % ( í ©óeï ø P)t ø¡ ó Âþ1 ï ÓéÉ ð ør5 é ÁëÂð¡ ï9  ë Á ó¡ õ 9©îu ì ëÓõ 25 ð î©x ï ìuR ë óÓ¡ õ9  Â î °øg ð5 í ©ëeïr ø (üû"Âóìug ë íR ó ùÁ ðv ô ©ë¡ ì  © ë& ï ù óp ù (ó¡ ó" éË ór   ï îrÂþï ø ü5Áë n ð ô£ëg ó í (îp ûn ó  ï¨ ðu ö ógÓí©ð3 ï óg í ©îø ¡ ó Âþï ï q y %  ù ÂóøÁðg5 í ©ë¡ ì 2 íuF v ë ûgh)õÁ õ Iîv ï pî' ê øuË î y©ó ì î7ï ê ÂëD ø5 éË ë eï û ói&`É ó ìÓ ð¡ ó ÂþS ïn ù é ît"7ør5 é ÁëÂðï 2 © 1 î ìÂóïÁéG ð õ °îðF û Âë² ø 5 ó ÁôÂðv ï î Áûðr¡ éü g í5 í (ëû 6  ï üun ë9  ² î Âóìug ë í ùr é Iîeïø  2 ì ó ùr¡ é² ü ©ëg ï (ì ó Iù5 ìz ë Áé ð  ù ©ó¡ ì (ü(û ûº ë ¡ ÿ Óé©ð ìn î þø  ïr î Âþ ï D  ¡ ëþ r ÿ éÓð £ 2 ¥ ) ùrÂ ü ï7 ø ïr î ÂþÉ ï ï é îg óË í °ø¡ ð þ7³  r % 5 é ÁëÂðv ï î©í5 ì »ë ê ÁéE ð ©ó ìr î Âþg ø Âëïgp ù (ó¡ óé ø G óÓ¡ õ£  ( ë óPv  Â ï5 ìP ë¥  ¥  Â ü ø h) õ Âóv ïn î üuA E  ó5 ù§ î Âë§ ï ùI ì îrg þ ïÓ1 ð ó ùug î² í ùr éî (íó©eï ø P) ø ¡ ó ©þ ï ê ë Âór ø ü ¡ ó Âþï p ù óFr û¡ ü ù ©óì3©øu ì ÂëFïû5pî² ê Âó ør ó7 þ 1 % © û (ïóu ör ø éuÓë©ðv ï ©î©ø ì5 ó ô5 é (ë& ûP ó1  îI ï ì5 ó !e°û7 ð  (öp ø ÂóïÓð¤ ø 5Ë ó ÁûÁð¡ õ¥  ¡ ü u í Âë»ìê °ø(õ¡ ó¡ é5 ér î þIû E ø 5r ó éS ö ©øï°øðÓÀ õ ¡ ÿ ÓéÁðõÁ ð î§ í 5 øî þIr û Âü¡ ø ö5u ó ÿr î·  ¡ ó ©þ1 ïu é¨ ë ïu é óp ø Âór ìy  ïH G  é Âó ìÉ óa  5 é ëÁÂðv ï î©í5 ì »ë ê Áéð  êl ë p ø óFIû¡ ì5 ü Âër ø (ì¡ ó ©þ ïr ë  ï îrÂþï  ù ©óv ï IîÂìïr ø Âü»ìÀ ê ©ó(ìË ó(  5 ) r ó Âþï ö5 é ëÁÂðv ï îI ï (éÂó ø ©ó¡ ì W ê& ë$ 7 Á ó õ )eïøW25 õ ©îÂïì5P ë 6 ¡ ó Âþï) ù ©óv ï °îFðp û Âó¡ ì1  î Áó¡ õ £(ëóP H ) 5 é îí óÁÓõðrz þ C 2  æ5 àA  ä C F ã E D $Cp ãB 0) ( # & A ! n ä ã' @ 9 $8

bdt ¤i © ´ Ä  © f Ã ¨ h ¢ £ ©« °i ¨  µ f ¢ ¡ Ä f ©e ¨ §W5 ¥  ¾ ©WP ¥c b b a%« ¬¤5 ¤ e ª `

%Á f õ ð î(íË ó5 ì ë ón9  © î ïÂ(ìó5e!°û7 ð  5 ø î Iþn û üS ø Áî¡ ð ùg ó í ÿ¡ÁéðÂï°ø ð 54) ó ë©ï ! ûrÂ e ü ïø 0)(õu ó ÿÂ5 ì Áît õ óÁ¡ õ9   ë' ó¨ ÷ 5%r øu ü Âë ì¡ ó é51 ë ë ©ëï¨u øË îS  u é Óë©ðv ï îí P 25 ì ë»¡ ê Óéð)Âó5 ìr î þø3©ëï n ø5 é Áëð°øðFp û óS ù óuÓôÂð°ø¡ õ¡ ü FÓí§ ð (é©óï êt ë Áì(ð¡ ó þ©ï ìuë»¨ ê (ì©óv ï î û ÂëE ï Áø õ¡ ó é¡5 ér î þIG û Âó ï î ©óFìû ©ë7 ï Iø(ìóÂr ø ü Âó ø ó¡©þ ï ÿ¡Áéð 2 © & ûu ì ë¡v  £ % Â óu ì »ëFêóP3  ê ë ï þu¡ ÿ5 ü ë¡©þ ï ïr ës é ù5r îs þ 5)r ó Âþx ï ø Áûr ð9  ëÂs ï éuë (é©óï ê ë öuógÓíð©ï ¡ ó þ© ï ïî (ír ó þÂï Âëï ©ø¡ ì (ü(û û& ë (ì5 ó ô ó¡ ë þ¨a  ë©ï öp ï þ5¡ ÿu ü¡ ë Âþ7 ï óËx   ér î ©þ' ï °øðøur î  p ¿¡ ¶t ¤ Ç5G ± ó©5 ìg ë íIþr û) üs íg î éuë Óïg ð ë3 ù (é©óï êë r ù (ég óg í í5(ë û ©óS ì¡ ëg ù ër¨ þ  Á ó¡ õ£  ( ë' ó ÷ 2 p æ7 B à6 $  $ & 5 4 3 % Á 9 ó¡ õ1  r î üÁ õ îvE ô ïÓ ð ùrr é{ U ëÂË ï Iø(ìóÂr ø üEïøuëg¨ í5 ì »ëÍ ê  í óÂï ø )G ø¡ ó þ©ï ë©u ï Áéð u é ëÓð©v ï î ©í5 ì »ë ê Áé ð¡ õ »üFêóÂr øG üu þ ÿ¡5 ür ë (é' ó Fï5 ós ÿ ©ët ï Iù ìr î þ5 ø î7 Ìï§ ç i % ( í Áó¡ õ9  © ë¡ ìi  7H¡ ÿ éÓr ð¥  1I î ìÂï©øï5 ëP ë 6 Ù î 5 í ë©»ìº ê  ù ©ó(ìi ó3 ` üÂø (íÂóï ø )ør ó Âþïgv ïr î ©þg ïu ï é5 î ógíg°ø¡ ð7 þ $ % r øu é Óë©ðv ï î¡r ù ég óS í íuë 2  & û ó©ì 5 ó Áô(ð(ó û ó©1 ì ©ëï 0)¡ õ éu& ë ïÓ) ð ÂóørÔ ü (í©óeï ø )PS ør ó þÂR ï ê ë Iø(ìÂóørü ïu øg ë íDÁóÓõr ð¨ þr   ö ©ø ì¡ ó þÂ5 ï3 ë Âës ïp ø ó5 ÿn ît  r ù ég óS í íuFëp û óÂ ì h)õ© ì °îõ 3 2 u ü (ÿ©óì Áó¡ õ£  ( ë óP© êº ë )ÓïÂðu ì¡ ë Óéðgí q  2 B æ" $  ã1 0) ( ' & B å% $ à# ! " ! u ã1 à i( í ©óeï ø P)G ø ó¡ÂþïÁéð7r ø5 é ÁëðÂ ïF  í¡Â ü ø©5 øî °ûðøur îx  ¡ ìu üs ë5 ê3 ë óg5 í Âëølp ù¡ ó5 é ÁëÂðï ør óu üc E ëÂÁ ø õ5î Ìïç¾r % 5 é ë ëÂl ø n ù éî øru é ÿÓÂð ø¡ ó ù ©ó§ ì ç ¦  ö ø ©ó¡ ì ©üv ï î »óê $  ¡ ó éìu»ëº ê ø©ï ø ó¡ üA E Â ó ì (ìóÂr ø3 ü  êë ù  ër ë  § î Áéðp ù ÂóïÓ¡ õ üp ø Âós ì °ø¡ ð ©þï êR ë Áõõ q i % ( í Âóï ø )ø¡ ó þ©3 ï r ùr é5 ü ë© ìî ) 7 i îS  Á ì (ð¡ ó ©þïrr ù énU °ù¡ õ5 ü (ëû óÓ¡ õ £(ëóPS  ( ì ó¡©þFï¡ ó þ¨   ù ó©eïp ø Âó¤ ïv ïn î Âþï øru é ëÓÂð©ø ø Âó¾ ø )ï ÁðÁõð¡1  © î ørt ü õ î ©íì5»ë§ ê ©ó5 ì ëg) í ê5 ë FïÂóøl î  ùr ó Iþr û é¡ ü °îõ óg Ë    ¨© ¨  p 5 ê ër ù é) ór ó Âþ7 ï ø¡Iùì7 îD   ëg  9 % Á ó¡ õ hÂðø©u øP ë©  u ø¤ î e!u ûr î3  p ù (ó»óê Iþûr) ü í5 ør î (ìr ó Âþv ï î ÿÍÂël ï p ø Óó ðn ù Âüïò ø )ÓïÓðÁõ¡ ð1  î©r ø üÔÂþÓïð¨V  I ø ïep ø Âóï °ù(õr ó U  ê ë(ór û (é¡ ó üA E  ó3 ø º î  ù ©óv ï °îðÂÓï¡ ð Áé ð n ù é î © r 3  & ýú ïÏ î  í óÂï ø )Pø ó Âþï  r ù ó5D ) ëÁ¡ õ$   ó ù § ó C %de!û5r î3  p ù (ó»óÅ ê ÿ¡ÁéÂðÂïFïu ó ÿÔr ù é îzIø(ìÂór øü ì »ëê (íÂóï u ø )ø ó¡©þï ¡ ÿ ÁéÂð ï ©î©ìeïr øu é ëgí( ó ù ï5 ì ©îï¢ ø ë©º ï Âøp ø óÂu ì5 ÿ ë©¡ ì þ ÿr5 5 ü¡ ë éó  óu ù îg¾ í 5 ùr î§ þ Ë ó  5 ö   ¨ © ¨ pi ìp î5 ó ¹)Q 2 Á ùg ð¾ í r ù é¡5 ü ©ëì q %  A ï5 ü ë °ù ð °î& õ ©ó(ìË ó m$ ) ó¡Â þ ïgi ) 7 î ó Âþg r ï5 ó ÿr ér î þI² û n ù éî 5 í ©ë»ìêóg í (îû $ ) ó¡Â þ ï ó©(ìr ó þ¨v   ì Âóï ï î í ¡ ëé °ø(õ¡ ór é é îrIþE û Áì(ð¡ ó ©þ ï êi ë Áõ õ î¾$  Ó ó ðô  í¡ ó Âþ7 ï (ïÓóõ7v ïr î ©þï u ó ÿr îv  1 îu ùr îþ øI(ìÂóø § ¦ % 0 7 õ¡ ó¡ é én î Iþû 6 S î °ûð¡9  © ëD ï î r ù és î¡ ø ùr é Óó©ð»ìê"5 ê ë ¥5 ü ©ë5 ìÿ î (é óÉ ó (ïn ót  5 é ÁëÂðïv°îðF û ÂëÂøu ø î¡ ó þÂ ï  ù ÁóÓõõ5(îûg ó v C 5 % ø¡n ù (éÁóÂð»ìê"5 ê& ë ø©FïóÂø éD ¨  ¡ ë é !ë©t ï (ø°ûð¡£  Â ë ï¨ êS ë FïÂó² ø ¨ éD  ¡ ë éS ! ) î ï üun ë9  ² î  ù ©óïv î Áûð¡r éü í 2 u { í ëFÉ û Áó¡ õ £(ëP óv  v ï înÂþs ïp ùS ór í ü©ø5 ø' î ïÌ çW % ùn¡ é5 ü »ë& ê 5)r ó Âþx ïp ø5 ó5 ÿ îrg  5  Ë ó ï üun  ë 9î (ìr ó Âþ ïs ë Iþûu î ó¨Âëïxr ø é5ÁëðÂ ï¡ î ùr(éógg í5 í (ë û ©ó& ìr ù (éóÂ ø Iø(ìÂóørü FïÁóõ ©ë¤ ï ù¡ ó éuÓÿðÂ ø¡ ó ù øuË î  i e ub ( í Âóï ø )ø Âï ï¡ ü$  Ó ó õ©ïï(üû' ý5 õ Áî©ðï r ð ÓéS ð ó¡7 þ      ¡" i ¤ ¥ ¤ e  W  ¨ ¢y ¤    ¢£  ¨ ¨  ¥    ¨W ¨ 7 ¢ ¡ % ( i í Âóï ø )& ø ï ï¡ ü$  óÓ© õ ï ï (ü û ý ó¡©þï ÁéS ð P7n ø5 é ÁëÂðv ïr îr ù (ég óí 2 5 { í (ë û ó© ì5 õ Áî(ð û ëÂø 6 u éS ë ørFü û »ët ê ì ÓóÁðÂõì5 î) ó ì¡5 ü) ë ©øï é °îõ¡¥    ü² ø n ù éî ø ©óïvIî5  ì ëPPìuFëûrÁéS ðr ø üF û »ë) êu ï é Âó©ì¡ ì (üS û °ø¡ ð7 þc   % n # r ù ér î ©þïu ì¡ ë þÂø S î5 øî " 7 ør5 é ÁëÂð ï (în û UhÂðï5¡ ëx é õ°îFðûÂëø 6 i ) © î øeïøneü8 @ i )  î& íË ó©   ï ürÌ  r «v ³ p¶¯v  I±¿ Î"È ¯vi ¶B ³ ¼ p±¯Fp ¿ (¶ « ÇI(¥°«Ä¯ ¼r ± ªu  ©¨¥Ìn v ³ I¶) ¿ øu î (ìórÂþv ï î ÿ1©ë¤ ïr ù (éó© ï ÓéG ðË ó ïr  î Âþ¤ ï éuÓë©ðïv î Âíu ì »ë ê ÁéB ð5 ê¤ ër ù Óé ð© ! Á ø ð¡©þïÂëE ï (ì»óFêó©¤ ì °ù¡ õ5 ü (ëû  ó C % I 5 øv ï îí 25 P ì ë»Ë ê °ûðøur î§  ó¡© þ ï7Óóõn ù é îrt þ ©ëïr ÿ éÓ©ðìp î ón¥  9  î¨Â ó5 ì îË©ó ì î7ï ê ëÂø ùr5 é¨ î Áøõuë©ëï ëÂ1 ø )ïÓ¡ ð é¡) üS íu í ëFx û õ î Áûr ð¡ é þI û ó©s ï¡ ó Âþï Óé7 ðn ø Füû»ëê ìn  ó £Óë õ5 ó (ô¡ ór ù r ù ér î u é ëÓ©ð ï (éóÂÂïv ï îr ÿ Óé¡ ð Áé ð î ÿ 0)Óõ5 õr î üu ù ©îu ì ÿ1°øð  # ¡ ýý ¾ ñ 0)Âõ5 ì Áîr õ Fü°ûÂðÂï ìr î   éuÓ ë ð©v ï î íÂu ì »ë ê Áé) ð ê ë r ù Áé ðS ! ° ø¡ ð þ7 %  $ ø ó¡Iþûuu î ©ëì¡ 2 1 ¥   î õ Iîï(éógÓíð©(ìP ó 3&4R ó ê¨ ë ï é îI(ìóÁ5 õ ©ët ï óPx  Â ë ïD0)(õóuh!Áðt õ ©ó5 ì ëgí ©ó ìB î ©ø ì ór øR ü ïr î Âþï r ø ép î óg í ö (ø°ûÂðïÁø©ð(ì©óeïu û î©5 ìr î IþG û &)ûr é¡ ó ü$ E ó©» ìê ùr5 é î óg¡ í Óüu õ ë5É ô¡ ó Âþs ï ©þï ¨ ð8  p ù óÓr õ ¥5 ü (ë û ö °øð¡7 þr  $ %  ø P!ø5IîE ï "!5 ì ëË ¡ ÿ ÁéÂð(ïÓór õ{  íuF ë ûÂëG ï õ5(î°ûÂðÓïÂð(ìa û )hÁõõr î Âür ø§ ü  ï ë¡² é ó© ìa î $ ) ¡ ó þ7 

éE 5 îE øD  ¡ ë Âþø  ©ó¡ ì5 ü ÁÿB ð ÓéE ð ï5¡ ë þn ø (é(ó©óFì©ûø)r ó7 þ  A % ( ì óuv ô Fëûr¡ é ü ï¡ ëé °ù¡ õ5 ü ëË ©ø ì¡ ó Âþ5 ïa ë ¡ ó Âþ ï  ïr î Âþl ï r ø éuÓë©ðeïp û¡ ó¡ é5 é ë(¢ û ÿrÓé©ð ï¡ ü 0Âð©ìïuéuFëû ö ì¡ ó Âþ5 ïë ¡ ó Âþï  ø óFIû5 ì ë»¡ ê Óé ð Âóì Iø(ì5 ói ) ° î õ órÂþï  ê ë þI5 ûÉ î' %5 ø "!5 ìË ë ïF¡ óx é õ5Áî(ð û ë¤ ø ùr5 é¨ î Áøõ5r î ü °ù ð Áô ð ùrÁéð ©þïP ë  Âër ï ¡ ó ü9 E r î £¾ ë P óÂ   ï þ5Áÿðg í v ïn î Âþï n ø5 é ëÁÂðeïp û¡ ó¡ éu é Fëû ÿ éÓ r ð1 !  î í öÓõ õÉ óR  5 ø î5 ì ÂëFï5 û î é5À î p øg ó5 í ëFp ûn ó  í Âóï ø P)ø ó Âþï)D ¡ e ©  r ö sb p ø¡ ó ü 0Er ð¡ é Iþ û ©óz ï ¡ ÿ éÁÂð ì ÂóÓïÓõB ð  5 ó ÁôÂðv ï îI5 ìP ë1  ° î Áõ5 õÉ ër ùr5 éî i e (b  ø¡ ó üu ÿ îpÓóÁõõ5(ëÖ û r ù é4 î  î' &© üì "  ì ÂóïF' óè ÷ Q )  ù ón£Óëõ5 p ó (ô¡ óÀ ù D e b  ør ó üuE¡ ð¡ é Iþp û Âó¢ ï ³ # % q ¦ 5 ó ÿn î5 ü¡ ÿ5 éî% ©ëº ï 5 ÿ ëÁ õ îré q Fóûur î øI(ìP óQ  ) ¦ ¡ ÿ éÁÂðør ü àu6  $ v à ä Ìà6 @ $0 B å $ & #$ B 0p æ æ àuHv ã ä$   å à) ( & " ! p ã(  F & ógu í ëø ¡ ÿ éÁðÁ¡ õ1  îr é ó ) "£ % ¡ 9 ó éuÓë5 õ î¡ ÿ Óé©ðeïûu¨ î Áøõ5r î ü °ù ð Áô ð ùrÁéð ©ëG ï ï (é ó °ùð(ôó 5 ï¡ ë égÂó ìÉ ó vv ïr î ©þt ï ø (í©ó ðï  é (óË ó ïFP ó8   ø¥ ! éÓÁ ðõ ©óv ï î©óFìûlh)õÁ õn î é5ÁëÂð ï (é©óïuéÁ¡ ð¡ é ü 5 é î(z û 5 é ëÁÂðFï5 û î õ5Áî(ð û ÂëD ø °ø¡ ð7 þ %y5 ér ë Âëø ùr5 é3 î #e ø¡ ó ü E¡ ð¡ é Iþ û ©ó) ï &e I b 5 é ÁëÂð ï îuÿÁ ð ôr î é õ5Áî(ð û Âëø ©þï ¨ ð  ùÂóï é óp ø Âó¡ ì   Âór ør ü ê5 ë ør©é(ì©óï ï îr Óì ð¡ ó Âþï Áî ðô 0 )Â õ ÓïðF°ûÓð¡ õF  íÁðÂ ó ï (î°û¡ ð¡ é ü)S í íuFë û h) õ Âó ï îgÁíÂðÓï¡ õ ü õÓÁõ¨ ðÂ  $ ) ¡ ó7 þ 5 % øru é ëÓ©ðeïp û ÓóõÁ5 õ (ëû r ù5 é î&Iø(ì©óï n õ U ¡ ÿ éÁÂðì5r î Âþ ø )Ht  5 é ëÁÂðv ï î©í5 ì »ë ê Áéð êÅ  ë n ø ÂéìÂóï ïr î  õ5r î5 é ëÁÂð ï îu ÿ Âóìu5 ÿ ÿÔ î ©ó ìr î Âþø é5(îû $ ) ¡ ó7 þ %$r øu é Óë©ðïv¡ î ùr é ógS í íuFëp û Âóz ì °ûÁð¡ õ¥  ¡ ü  °î ð² ô  ø (í©ó ðï ¡ ÿ ÁéÂð ï î ©óFìû ù5 r éÉ îp ø FóûI¡ ì5 ü Âëø éuÓë©ðv ï î ©íì5»ë ê Áéð  é ó5 ôÉ ó ìu7 ë øg í ÂóÓïð)r ÿ ÓéÂðÂøn ø Füû 2ø° ð² ù )Q 5 é ëÁÂð ï îÂíìu»ë ê éÓð Âó5 ìr î Âþ ø  é î û)Iø(ìÂóø # ¦ i %  í Âóï ø P)ø ó þÂ ¡ ï Óéð)5 ì ÂëïF5 û î5 é) îp ø óg5 í Fëûpn óc  0 )( õu ó ôÓ©ðeïp ûP ó 5`G ó Iø(ìÂór øü r ó Âþï  ê) ë P!u ì ëÉ(ï¡ ór é õ5Áî(ð û ë& ø¡ ó Âþïuö #$ A 0 ä& 4æ ¡ ÿ ÁéðFr û ü ù ©ëÂì ï Áé) ð ) "£ % 5 9 ó Áôð((ó û ©ó1 ì$ ) ¡ ó Âþ1 ï5 é ÁëÂðv ï îI ï (éÂó ø ©ó¡ ì³  5 êt ën óQ   )s ï¡ ó ©þï7eï û óÁ(õÂóø ù5 r éE î Iø(ìÂóÓïõr U © ù ìuÉ ëQ  5 ) óuF ! ¡ ÿ ÓéÂðr øü g ø í ÂóÓï¨ ð eï û óÁ(õÂór ø ö éuÓë©ðv ï îí  2 ìu» ë ê Óéi ð ê" ë ø FóûI¡ ìu ü ë ø Fï û Áó(õÂóD ø é (îû©ø ì ó ø ¦6A % ( ì5 ói ) ° î¡ õ5 õ ©î ï é(g óí D 2 ¡ îr ùr é »üº ê ¡ ó ÂþïÁéð !$ 0 n ä pã7  0 1 &( ¡ ÿ éÁðÁ¡ õ1  r î é¾ ó Q )   í Âóï ø P)ø ó Âþ¤ ¡ ï éÁ¨ ð ì5©ëeï5 û î5 éE î5 ø î(ìÂóør ü õn î ü Áù ð Áô ð ùrÁéð ¡ ó ©þï ¡ ù ù5î § ó C  % ( A ì Âóørt ü¡ ó ©þï)©ëï  í¡ ó ÂþË ï øIu ï é óp ø Âóìrm  r ù5 éî5 õ ëP ëa  éuÓ ë ©ðv ï îí  2 ìu» ë ê Óéð é î Áéð (í¡ ó ©þ ï øÁõÁ õr î ÂþøI ì îx í ö(n ø é5ÁëÂðv ï în û hUÂð ï ërR é õ °îFðû 2  9 ë& ø øI(ì¡ ó ©þv ï îut ÿ ï îrÂþS ï ( ärÉ ã B æ $ A &( ä( " $  ã1 0) ( # & A ! n ä Ìã6 @ $V 0 Á ó¡ õ 2vÁ í ÂðS ø¨ î °øÍ ð (í©óeï ø P)G ø¡ ó Âþ ï êË ë ì(u ói ) îÁx õ5 õ ©îï(ég ó í îrr ù¡ é »üê&¡ ó7 þ  % ( i í Âóï ø )G ør ó ÂþS ï Âëï  ù (ór û üù 29Â ë ©ìïÓé§ ð Âó5 ì î øI5 ì ©ëeïûuî 5¡ ó é øu¾ î  ù (óûr ü ù ©ëÂì ï éÓ ð Âó5 ì¤ îr ø é5ÁëÂðFï û¡ óé 2 é5( 3 ëB û5 õr î Âü ï 4&©ó ï5 é ëF7 û ê& ë¡ ør ù Áé ð !  ï é Âó ì óPh` ðº ù þIÁû¡ ð¨ þp  Ó é ð Iþ5 û îu©ë¡ ì 3 2 1  º î  ù ©óì(u ói ) îÁõ  î ¡ ÿ ÁéÂðr ø ü©þ ï 5 ó ù Âóu ìS ë í éÓ ð ¥   üþ 5 é ÁëÂðv ï î í©5 ì »ëê 2 éÓ& 3 ðr ø ü 45E óF  ¡ ó ÂþR ï ê5 ë ï$  F ó ûru é ëFg û¡ ó Âþ ï ør ó ÓéðÁÂõ ï üu ë é5ÁëÂðFï û Âóø°ø¡ ð7 þ  E ¥ ¥ ¨ P ¢3  W   r ¢   S3  5E    # ¤ %9© i û Fï ón ö¡ ÿ éÁÂðv ï Iîì  u ¥ ü Âëìuu ÿ öuÂó¡ ì ÂüøuÁëõF©û°ø ð ù5 ö )Óïðr ø é Âó ï ÁéE ð ó55 ÿ Âîr øg üQ )   p ù¡ ór é 5U óÉ ù °øð ïø©ó(ì©ó ï Óéð Âó ì¡ ó¨ þ   2 Ó éð p ù Âóï ø ©ó(ì©óïuÁéð £  Óéð p ù Âóï ø ©ó(ì©óïuÁéð ©ó ì§ î ¡ ë¨ þ Áó¡ õ9   ën ó  © ó ì îgv ïr îz þ C ¨ ¤ Áéº ð  ù Âóï ø ©ó(ì©ó ï ÓéD ð Âó°ø(õó )  3 ùn ë $g ó í5Âë3 ø Áø3 ð v ïn îz þ C(% ÿ 9 % p ó  ¤  í Âóï ø P)l ø îÁé¡ ð ÂþÓï¨ ð u é ëÓ©ðïv î Âíìu»ë ê Áéð)©ó ì îrÂþøÂëï  ù Âór ø ü óPe# ï &4©óï5 é Fëû  e ïp ø Âó ì Âóï 3 2 éÓ ðp ù Âó5 ì îrþ" ø5 ê3 ë é5ÁëÂðv ï în û UhFð ûP ó PS øA 7 ¡ ó5 ü5 ÿv îô6  î é5(îû D  ë ¦£ ¤r  ø5 ü ©ë5 ì ÿx õ °îFð û Âëø n ù éî Áøõ5r î ü °ù ð ôÁ ð ùrÁéð  é (óË ó ïFP ó   ï é ó ùr(éP ó 5¡ ó ©ù ì Âó ï Óél ð õ5©ëÂì ïu é Fëû u é ëÓð©v ï î Âíìu»ë ê Áé ð ¡ ÿ éÁ ð1 !  î íg ê¤ ë ©øïF ûi ó &`ó ¡ ó ©þï ©ó ìî  ï îrz þ C  ¤¥ ©  5 ü ©ëì5B ÿ êë Âór ø é óø ÁùðuÓÿ©ðS ì¨ î ï éS ó í Óór õ{  Á í¨ ð ï G ép ø ó¡ ë¨ ù ïr î Âþï (íÂóï ø )S øî Áé7 ð5 ó ôÁ5 õ ëu(ôg ó ùr5 éE î5 ó ©ÿ(ìóg(íóRp ø ÂóìrÂüeïn û Âü©ìeï ø¥  üuÂ ë ìuG ÿ ë ù D  ë ¦£
 D

¤ Óïð ¥ í ©ë»ì& 5 ê ©øÓïõ¡üp ø ÂóG ì ïr î¨ þ  r ù é§ î  ù ©óïìun ë¥  üø n ó  é îº û u é Óëð©ï 2 Á 1 î ©ð ï ë5 ÿ ó¡E é ê) ë ø¡r ù Áé ðv !  ïr îz þ CI¨ ¤u é ëÓ©ðv ï °îðÂ5 ï5 ë (ÿr óé ¡ ÿ ÁéÂðïÂ5 ìP ë 2 ¥ ¥   ü) ø5 ì »ës ê °øðøur îi  î 5 é ÁëÂð ï Âî°øg ð5 í ëÂïr ø ü(§ û n ù é î ¡ ÿ ÁéÂð5 ìr î ÂþG ø øeç  ¤ ¥ ï &4©óu ïu é ëFûi õr îu é Óëð©v ï ©îÁør ð éu î ©ÿ5 ì¤ ë5 é îÁé ð ù Âóørü é5ÁëÂð ï ©î ï (éÂó ø ©ó¡ ì·  r ù5 é î5 õ ©ëÂìï5 é (ëG û é5ÁëÂðv ï î í©5 ì »ë ê Áé ð ê ën ø5 é ÁëÂðv ï Iî¦ï  3 2 9  ¡ î ù5î  ù ©ó ì îrÂþør ù é î5 é ÁëÂðv ï î©í5 ì »ë ê éÁD ðp ù óÂ5 ìr î þÂ& ø ©ó ì î¾D  ë § ¥ ¤r ø ü&4E ó8  u ó h!Áðõ (íÂóï ø )ø î  êD ë óÂr øË ü õ °îÂð ï (é©óïP ëc  5 é ëó5 ôn î þ °îð ùg ó) í¡ ï ü¡ P 2 ï5 ü ë&r ù5 éB î ïr ü¥  Ó é ð ó¡Âþ7 ï¡ ÿ ÁéÁð¡ õ¥  ü5( ë û óù  ø ó ë ù Fï ûi ó &`ó  ïr î þzC   r $ ø5 é ÁëÂðï ø¡ ó ü Ex¡ ÿ ÁéÂðï ø ó©(ì©óu ï Áéð ó{ P  Â ë¢ ï (í ó óS ø¡ ÿ éÓ¨ ðD  Á ë Áõ5 õ »ë& ê¡ ó Âþu ï ö50)Âõ ï é Âó©ì¡ ì üÉ r 5 % u ø î ó °ù ð IþIû ì î óÂ ø ©óì ù (ór  û év î ô ùu1 î ©óì5g ë) í ï ø ó©º ï r ù é îÁùÁõ¡ ð¡ üv  r ø) ü ©ø(ïÓó² õ Iþ°û¡ ð þ¨ í©5 ì »ëê P 2v ï °î¡ õ{  ¨ î ø ó °ù ð ôvÂër ì yr ø5 é ÁëÂðï(în û hUÂð5 ï¡ ë éx õ °îFð û ëÂg ø ÿrÓéð©u ï é óp ø Âór ìa  n ù éî ¡ ÿ Áé5 ð ÿ5r î é îB ír ö¡ ÿ ÁéÂð ì¡ ó Âþ ïu î) ÿ5 ì »ëê3"!ì5Ë ë 5óg í Iî»ìêg°ûðu ør îv  Á ø ð¡7 þ % p 5 ø Fó°ûðÂFï5 û Iîì¡ !5 " ìË ëm  ÿrÓ é ð©eï°ø ð 4&t ó¡ ï U © ë ïE øi ) 7 î ê¤ ë )FïÁóð© ìv î1 ô§ î Óé ð Iø(ìÂóørü  ©ë ï øru é ëÓ©ðv ï (îûPUð© ï¡ ëE é5 õ Áî(ð û ëz ø p ù ó°øÓðõ5r î Âü ï 54Âóï5 é (ëû1u ï é óp ø Âóì÷ %A # © û ïF¨ ó Fï û eó1 @ ë©¡ ìF  ëÂ1 ï ù ó©v ï °î(õó©ì ø Iù5 ¡ ì ëËQ  5 ) 5 ó ! ê¤ ë éuÓë©ðeï û ÁóÁõõ5Fën û öxr ù (éÁó©ð»ìêgÂë7 ï ï év î (ôÁó(õ©óìò í óÂÓïð E ø$  ¡ ó é»  í¡ ó Âþï5 ó Áô(ðFóûI(ìP ó  5)¡ ó ©þï©ó(ìó¡¨ þp  Ó ór õ9  ( ëP óV  r ù é5î é ëÁÂð 5 ï îÂíu ì »ë ê Óé1 ð (é(óË ó FïP ó xr ù5 éD î é5ÁëðÂ ïg î í©5 ì »ë¡ ê ÓéD ð é (óË ó FïP ó ©þ ï ëPv  øn5 é ÁëÂðïep û¡ ó¡ é éuFëS û Âøp ø Âóì¡3  5 4  ó r ù5 é î ó©v ïp î Âó(ì² û h) õ ó5ÁôðÂeïûu£ î 2P( ì ó© ï Óét ð ©ëï (ír ó Âþ² ï D  Á ë Áõ õG î ëÂB ïn ø5 é ÁëðÂeïûu©î©ìïen ø1  R î Iø(ìóÂr ø ü¨5 ó Áôð ¢  %$ # I û ïF ó¤ ö (íÂóÓïÉ ðE ø 5¡ óÉ é ì °îÓõðgÁíðø ©ë¢ ï (íÂóÓï" ðE ø$  ¡ ó é ö5©óï ÂðD ø 5óË ©ëè ï (í©óï ðlE ø 5r ó »é u é ëÓ©ðv ï î©í5 ì »ë ê Áéð p ù Âóïv°î(õó©ì  é (óË ó FïP ó ø éuÓë©ðeïp r û¡ ó¡ é é5(ëû ©óv ïp î Âó(ìû$r ù5 é îÏ5 ó ©ôì(Âó ø ©óì¡ Âëï 0)Óõ5 õ (î°ûð 2v P ï î í5©ë ï üÔ î 5 é ÁëÂð ï îg©í5 ì »ëê¡Óéð  ù ©óì(¡ ó ©þv ïu îa ÿ órÂþ ï øÂp ø FóûÂëì÷  %  y ù5 ó ÿ5î 2  ¥ é îz í h) õ5 ó ÁôÂðFï û ói&`§ ó n ó   é î(r û $ ) ¡ ó Âþï óÂ ì¡ ó þ¨  ¥ ü þ ¡ ó þ©¢ï  ë©ïuÁé¨ ð (ìórÂþïFu ó5 ÿ ë©Ë ïr ø5 é ëÁÂð ï (în û UhÂðï5¡ ë éx õ °îðF û ÂëG ø óp ø ó¡Âþï¨ ì¡ ó Âþïî £  Â ëD ï )h õu ù îu©ë¡ ìy  ° ø1 ð Iþû5 î Âër ì¥  1  E î¡ ìü B $ %  ì ó¡¡ é é î í¨Âïì5i ë &`ó Óëg õ î éÓ¤ ð5 é ÁëðÂ ï î Âíìu»ë ê Óéðr ÿ éÓ©ð ìr î Âþ" ø ê ëGÂó5 øp îG ó¡ ó þ©¨ ï5 ø î Óõ õÉ ó©  5 øî ï¡  ë Âþr ø (é ó Âó(ìûý ¡ % R ¨ r ø ü 4&ó   9   óÂr ì5 ü Áÿ ð

3 % H p ¨ ¨ a p v ôE ë ¡ p éuë  ù ÂóÂøp ø Fó(ûû q A % 5 ì ©ëv ï î(ÿ©ó5 ì5 ÿÿ qE ø$  E ó  q eø©çv ï îr¨ þ $ 2 xa( © ¨ a x ¨  xGH B p  ¨ ¨1 p  x í5(ëû %Wn ù é °îÂõ ì ór ø ü$ % ( ï¡ ó (éóu ô¡ îv ùG x x y  P r  ï ïþ % 5 A ì ëÂ ï îuÿÂóìu5 ÿ ÿ î E ø 5¡ óé  î °øðv ïr îz þ C A % ( ì¡ ó Áéz ð C u ó ô ît ú eDB ¨ b 3 % H p ¨ ¨ a p v ôE ë ¡ p{5 éG ë ù ÂóÂøp ø óF(ûû q 3 % a x ¨í %9Âü)   x ©ø©øìvø 5 x ©ÿ ì5ë «%©õ¡ ì¡ ü 8 % §  §  i  G x éyxr  P  ï ïþ % ¨9 ¥ %  ¥ # r ý ý pñt  " ) ì î íg¡ ø ÂóÓïÂð  úE" ñ9 %  & ï5 ìË î3  ý3u Âë5 ì î q e ¡b %  £   ¨ ¨ p Á öp Ê I¥P ¿ (³Â¥·FF¥p Ô Û IU 4û 7 6n 4Ò 5 2) 3 ÛØv ¼ ±P ³ p¶¯  ±Pe³(·Ì¥n  ³4 v ¼ ±rr ªn ³ ³a Ø ¤ p B w µ v³Wé¶"$ ç £ % óF5 î ø õr  î ©ü ï 5(óûr5 é (ë û õr î éuÓëÂðr ø (éógÁí ð3 ù 5 þ Áÿ¡ ðS þD î¡ ÿ Áéðr øÀ ü D  ër  5 é ÁëÂðï 2  1 î Âíìu»ë ê Óé3 ð r ÿ éÓ©ð(ìóuv ô Fë©ûÁø ð3 ú ¥ %  î & Âüì "  % ÷ n ù éî ¡ ÿ éu ëR ýu % G úD e (b 3 % p£¨© ¨ p ó¡ r é5 ü Geö© #  ñË ýË ÷ frm   )Ó ï ðÁÓõ¡ ð 0Âðr ø é5P ë p ø¨ ó ñ õ °îðF û ë ýu ì ë»ê °ø õn î é5Áëðø 2  ø »óê5Âëì ÷ (ìÂó¡ ï¡ ü F5 íÉ ë r 5%©¥i ¿ ³F©¥F·¥Fp µv ³" ¶ Ûa ³ Æ e¯«F) ¥ Úe¬ · Ì¶ ¡ ±½ Î(¯¿p¯ev ·¨ ±v 0 ¼vp±n ¯ ³r(³p¥¨ ¯u H »¤r(³¥(Ã¥ Ò r ¥ ¤ eµº ¶  « Æ ³ ¯ IÇ©¥¥Ip ¿ Â¶Ë ·0 éW ç %r5 é ÿÁðp ø ót ù P)u ì Âëv ïn î h(ðûÁ©ðï5 ìr î³  ¡ ø ©ù5 ìË îD  © ëE ï¡ ÿ Áég ð íg í Iî5 ì ÿ5©ë¡ ì g ó í Âó©ìï54ó ¡ ÿ Áé ðv ô ëg í8 2 5 é ëÁÂð ïr î hð(Áû©ðï5 ì îr  óS í Âó©ì ï 4¥ ' y % Á é ð(©óeïø 2 ( ¥ é ÂóÂï ì î " h!¡ ð Áéðg5 í ù r é î Áù õr ó Ur ø é ît  Óí7 ðg   ö ©ù5 ì§ î C (õó5ÁÿE ð  ö é7 î$ ' ûs ë úì55 ë ÿ Âóì ¢  ö Iþr û ©ü¡ ìQ  ( é ©óïÓï¨ ð ñ ør ü "! ì î  Ae®db %  ¡ ¡  ( n ö ©ø ø ©ó" ì÷ b  r q %DÝ qpE C T r Û Ò ©ÛÕ ÂÑ ·¤ ¶r ¥ Ã¯ v  Â±·Fr ¥ ©½p ¶" ¶¢ Û ÇIÌ¥e ·¡ ¶u ½ ½pª Ò F·¥W  ªP½ ®v" Û v 6 ³¾ ¶ ©¥i ¿ F³©¥·FF¥µ Înv ³ ¶"Û qph ¥ »¤  eµ¶  « Æ ³ ¯ ©Ç¥II¥p ¿ Â¶Ë ·i 0 ¶éW¤ ç 5%E ø$  ¡ ó Âé(ï¡ ó¨ é êë Eh Eg ¡ ÿ éÓ©ðì(©óï r r õ U óuÓ ô ©ðv ï Iîì5P ë1  ° î ÓõõuëF' û5 ì »ëêR©ó¡ ì ©üeï û ©óï r ð þI©û5 ì) î (éP ó9  ë)é q 5  ør é óÓr õ¥  5 ü ©ëì ¢ f% õG î ïF ó r ù é î üu5 ë ôv(ë5 û eîçxg % y  i ö !e°û¡ ð Âé ø¨ ó ñ % G ÷D e sb %  £   ¨ ¨ p ( ì óPu   í óFp ûó ¡ úr ö îÁÁð õ îIÂìï 2ørü q p ö¡ ì üun ë " ìî ¦ x ø1 ` É ë rv öÝh Û Ú »ØÕ  ® ªe¯v «¡ ¶½ v g f¨ CÒD Æ³¯  ªP½ v ®" ¶Ë Ûr  (³¥g ¶S Ú ³ p±e¯ « Ó± ¼ Â±·e « ªS Ø ¤e · ª¶ A ® ¥r¬ ¤Ò µ¶  « Æ ³v ¯ IÇ¥II¥ ¿ ©¶Ë ·@ 0 ® éW(ªç ¿S % f õ ©îÂï5 ì ëP   õ °îðF û ë¢ ø Å î ¡ ÿ Óér ð é5Áÿðø & 2  ó ú % ©îìÁ(ð¡ ó ü E ð§ ý !ó  ø5 ëe  é5Âër ø Áé ð 0!Áõz ð C Q ) 5 é¡ ë ©þïué q r éî  é7  î  '$ û d5 ì5 ë ÿ Âóì ¢ x ö ©ùì5§ î C õ5 ó ÿÁE ðr   ö Áù õr ó Un ø é î c  ùíÓ7 ðg  i e ub $ % Â øp ø Âó¡ ì b  r q®3 % u ¡ ¡  ö B ¥ r p ö (ìóu óP  ú övÝ `aE ¦ IÛÕ 4 8Y « (®¥WI «¬Ò  Æ ³¯  ªP½ v ¶ Û ³¨ " ¯ I«v · ¶W(¿5 ±X A ô v³(é ± ®t ªW 8 µC  ¶ ¥Ii ¿ ³F¥ Îe(·¥F µ ³ ¶RÛ 3 2 Û ØgéW ) ç%r ÿ Óé©ðì(©óï õrU 5 ó ÁôÂðv ï îI5 ë1  ° î Áõ5 õ ëF7 û5 ó ôÁÂðFïû q d  )i7 îa  r ó Âþ3 ï ¡ ÿ ÁéÂð ï éÁ5 ð' ë§ ÷ y % I þ ÁûÁð©õ¡ ì" þ 'F % V (ì P ù é5 r î &ï õ5 î Uu % G ú1 e b % s ¡ ¡   ör(  ¨ 3 p ' & £© ¨ pp ø5 ó ÿn î3   ö p  ìn ó 2{¡ í üE©  r ö ( p óg¡ õ ëR$TIö«I(·¥W ª½v ®" ¶Û S  ³F ¥ ® ªe·e« Î ³ 4 IÐv r « Çr ¶ ¤(¥ Q 2 í Áü©¤5 ©¿v · I±(¥e«¥P I P · p¶p v ¯v Ãr ± ©¤ ¥¢ H R ÐI%£p«óFn û r é Âór ì üF(û ûë 2 F 1 ë û¨5 õ (îû° ð 45Óó¦ õ íuÂë»ìê)p ø Fó5 ûn î  ø ûÁ©ð ï é î (íÂóE ø õ îru é ÓëÂðr ø éS ó Áí ðù 2 þ5Á 3 ÿ¡ ð þ¡ ÿ éÁFðr û ü ù ©ë" ì ÷ %5©ø ø óuÂÿ¡ ìü"  % T r n ù éa î ùr¡ éü% F %  ( De b % ( ¡ ¡  õÓ© ¥ ð¡ ì qö qr (öp ø óÓ õ ó5¡ ÿ é q øu ë%v ö Ý FGE D 8 IÛ Õ ) « (®¥Ìe « ¬ Ò Æ³¯ P ª½v ®" ¶Û C 49 ³ ¯ «I · ¶Ì(5 ¿ ±B A ³ v ± ®t ª@ 8 ³¢ v ¿ (³Â¥F·¥Fp P µv ³" ¶Û 49 8 Û7 6 4 5 Ò 2) 3 Û" Ø¡ ¥ »¤µ7 ¶ « Æ ³ ¯ ©ÇI¥¥I¿pÂ¶Ë ·1 0¶ éW¥I5 ç %£¡ ó ÁéðÓR õ óÁ5 õ¡ ÿ ÁéÂðE ø î éÁ ð ©ø ø¡ óé 5 2 Â ó ì5Ë îq9  óP1  îI ï ì ó5e!°û7 ðn  y % é5Á îr õ1  t î) ( é5g ë Áí ðS ýn ù é îrÁõ õ î (ÿ óý õÓÁõð "  ö ©þï ¨ ðD  Â ë ©ø5 ìR î ÷a©î5 ì î3 ý P ö !e°û©ðÂìïvn î 5& ÓïB ð  ¡ ó Áé ð °ù õ Iîì(ó ¢ i e pb %  ¥ ¨ ¨© ¨ 3 p  öQ u H  ' &£ s §   øu ó ÿr î ö ¡ s ì(P óu  r í üE   ö d óg¡ í Áüõ5R ë% $ öe¡ « ³vp¶¯(¿5Â±(·¥Ìn³r ¯ $ % øg í Âóï ø )ø Áó¡ õ9  Â îr ø ü ©ó5 ì ëg í ¡ ÿ éÓ¡ ð ÁùÁõ¡ ð¡ üv  5 ì »ës êp ø¡ ó ü E0¡ ðr é Iþû ó{  y  éuÓ ë ©ðv ï îÓÿð 2Hôr î é5 õ îÁ(ðû ër ý «%5 õ îR(ïG ór ù5 é î)ÂþøÁ©ð¡ ìu üë  ú %  ÷ öp(ìu ó Âÿìn ó$  Ó ó ð ú % q e&Yb d  ¢ ¢ ¥    Q  #

% e  #  ø óFIûì¡u ü ëp ø¨ ó ñ  " r (óñË r û (éÁóFð ûr ýu ö P)ì©eïn ø ü ùrWé' ç êë ï éS ó ©íï5 ìr î 5 ó pú g óS í í5©îu ì5 ÿ ë©" ì÷  r ø1 G ï éS ór í Âé ì5 óv ôë ¢ õ5©î ì ó ù ór 5 é ÁîÁð õ IîÂìïørü q r ó Âþï 5 þ¡ ÿu ü ëÂ¡ ì þ©ï #y© r 3s ý pú ) 5 £ ÿ Áë5 õ¡ ë¡ é Iþp ûó   ø (íó©eï ø )Qý  ù ©ó ï¡ ü 0Âðì©eï°øð ú óÂ°øÂðì¡"(ì©óï" é' 5 ì »ëê ©óÂì ï (éÉ óg r I þ Iû ì î Âó øE óB ñ óuÓô©ðïvIî(ìóP9  Ì ë1 2 É ë r ¡ ó þ©ï )Qy  ïÂ ìr î8  Á és ð ù¡ ór ù¡ é »üê é (óP  ó Ru ø îrÀ þ  ìn ó 9r î Áør ð Âþ6 ï Áé6 ð  ù ©óïu ìn ë$  óÂ ì !"5 ìË ë  ó¡7 þ % 5 r é ÂëørÓéð0!Óõz C H m ) u é¡ ë Âþ ïé q r ù5 é¤ î ©ù5 ì§ î W C  õ ó5ÁÿE ð ö IþûrÂüìrH   é ÂóïÂï ¨ ð¢ ñ r ø ü"! ì î ð r ö ©îÁì(ð¡ ó ü E ðò ý !ó u øu ë  x ö °ù(õn ó Ur ø5 é î  Óí7 ð   ö é7 î$ ' û  5 ì ëu(ÿ©óì ¢ u ö ÓóõuÉ ë r 5 ó !¥ü %  ö Áé(ðó©eïør é óÂÂï ìî " ! ð¡Á h é ðg5 í ëz ú  ö Âþ(ïó°ø(õóP q r ù5 é ©ëì  #(ì ó Iù5 ì ë õ5(î°ûðÂ(ïn ó9  îr¡ þ 0 õî Áé»ð D ` I î eïÍ ø r©3  & ý ú ï (é©óÂìr ì Fü² û r ù é5S î ì ógÂíu ì »ëê©þ ïP ëv  p ø ór ù ÁüFõr û Áéð ø n ü 54E ó u ì »ëê íp î óÂÖ ï r ÿ éÓg ðg í íIî5 ìu ÿ ëÂ¡ ì ¹23u é ÓÿðÂ ø óè ù ó¡7 þ %¥£ p  ¨  ¨ r p ¡ õ üu3 2 5 éu î  ì ó5v ô& ën óQ  ) ï ©ë ï ë©¡ ì §r ø ü54E ó ó ÂþS r ï ê ë n ø5 é ÁëÂðeïn û¡ é »üG ê5 õ ©î ï (éógír îr ù¡ é »üs ê ö õ (î°ûÂðÓï©ðFì û ¡ ó þ©ï ¡ ó ér5U óù ©ëï r ø ü þ©ï ¨ ð r ÿ Óé ð "!5 ìË ëI  éÓÀ ð óFr û é óÓ©ðïvr î r ù é5À î g ó ÁíÂðï²Áì(ðr ó Âþï ìuë» ê  ù ë§ ë C 5©ó ìr ùé q r ù é î ïÂ ì7 î 5ó© ï) ý¡ ð ü 5Eu ûu î  ö5 é ëÂr ø é¡5 þu ë õ óÓr  ð é& î ú ö ø© ì óg5 í Âëïr ø (üÌû2P(ìÂór ø ü ¡ ì5 ü¢ ë ëÂ ï ë5l ÿ  ø !¥ én î þÂ¤ ï ö ïIøÓìB ð  ¢   S  r ¦ Â   ©¤¢¦ ¥ ¢z  §¨  5 % øIu ï ég ó¡ í5 é ©ëÓì ð ô (éG ó 7¥Áùõ©5 ìË ë ¹25 õ î ©óì 6 54Óóõ¡F  u í Fëû Áéð ør ü 54E óm  ¡ ÿ Áé ðD ) ëÓr õ 5 ó§ ù ÂþÓï¨ ð   ø (ór û é(Áóð©(ìP ó Q54ó ì¡u ü ë 5 é¤ ëp ù óu ør î " 7 ør5 é ÁëÂð ï (în û UhÂðï5¡ ë¨ é õ °îðF û Âëø 6  êë ¡ ÿ Áé ðr ù5 é ©îïø© ì ór ù é¡ ü¡ ìu ü ëD ï1  r î5 ùî ©ëï x ö ùn5 é Fëp û ó3 ý 5%øI(ìÂór ø ü7 êG ëp ø Óóð©ï ðr¡ é ü íg5 í (ëº û r ù é) î Áø5 õr î ü°ùðÁôðr ù Áéð  ês ë ø¡p ù (ó¡ óg é¡ ó ©þï  é (óË ó ïFóPi  i ) Á î¡ õ "(ì©ó ï Óéð54Óó¡ õ Fu í FëûD¡ ó þ© ï ï¡ éu ü Fëû 2 û5g & î Âë ï éÓð ¡ ÿ éÓ ð !9©ît ï "7r øu é Óë©ðv ï (îûPUð© ï¡ ë én õ °îFðûëø 6  ê ëË ï 54Âó ï5 é (ë& ûr ó Âþï é 5 ë ÿ¡ÁéÂð5 ì îrÂþ§ ø u é ëÓ©ðv ï îÂíu ì »ë ê éÁÉ ð êG ë ø óÁÂðÓïÓðÁõ¡ ð 0ð©øu øP ëx  ó¡Â þ) ï ó©5 ì Áëõ¡3  & 4 ó ì¡  ó ÂþÂï¡ ì »ü ê ©ët ï ö ï©øÁìB ð $ % Á ø5 õu î5 ë ÿ Áé ð îz í Ë ë À ï u é3 ë r ø (ü û »ëê ÓõÁõð¨ þI©û5 ì î Âó ø ó©) ìn ù é î" ï (éóg¡ í9  Á ë (õu ó (ô ó¨ ùP óQ   ) ï Âëï5Âër ì  óÂr ì Âüï»ü' ê¡ ìü B % © 9 ó ï ÂðøEu ï5 ér î 0ðF°ûÂðÂï ìr î {î v ï î h)Áõ õr î ü© ï (é5 ó ô1 ón ù éî © r 3  s ýG úv ïR î õ °îÂðì© ï °ù(õn óm U ¤ î ÂëS ï óPQ   ) ïÂ ë5 ï Âër ì·   ïr î þÂï óu ø î Áó(õó©¤ ì Âëï é °î¡  õ  § ó ³ C ¥ % 7 ¥  üS þ5 é ÁëÂð ï îg©í5 ì »ë¡ ê Óéð 6 é5î  í Âóï ø )Px ø ê ëSr ù Áé ð ! Á ør ð Âþï ù ÁóÁõ  õ (î§ û  ó C $ %  ø óru ü E¡ ð¡ é Iþp û Âóï¤°ûÂð ï îí5Âëï¡ üz î r ù é5 î õ °îFð û ëÂE ø ö5 õr îü 2 Á 3 ù ð Áô ð ùrÁé ð ÿ¡ÁéÂðr øü n ø5 é ÁëÂðv ï î ûnhUðÂ ïr ëÉ é õ5Áî(ðûÂë1 ø óu ÿr î5 ég î íh õ ó¡§ þ Âëï ùr  ó é5Áÿðp ø ó ù (í©óeïøP)ø n î ê5B ë ï é(óg¡ í£  ëÓ õ ó5 ô óË ù órÂþt ï5 éu î (ÿP óy   ó C ¥ % 7"r ø éuÓëð©v ï (îP û U©ð ï ë¡x é5 õ Áî(ð û ëÂø  ù ÂóÁøÁð õn î Âü ï 4&©óu ï éuFëû 6 5 êG ë ón ø¤ ür ù é3 î é5ÁëðÂ5 ï¡ ëG é ó¡©þS ï ÿ¡Óéð©5 ì Áë¡ õ 3&4 óv ïî ùg  ó Áí ð îgeï û eó9 @ Â ë ìrc  5 é Áÿðp ø óù  ù ©óÂì ï (é(óÌûP2(ìóÂr øü  î 5 éº ë p ù5 ó !" ìr îv  ( íó ói Ë  ( öp ø Âóì¡©üïer û ü©Âìï ø õ °îðF û ëø)r ù é) î5 é ÁëÂðïv î ©íì5»ëêÁéG ð é (óË ó FïP óv  n ø5 é ÁëÂðï 2& û¡ ó é¡u é ëFG û ©óv ï îuÁÿðÂï øu ó ô Óé ð ë©s ï ÂóÁìðp ø ó ùî )Q   ù Áó¡ õu ö )P5 ìg îg í í¡Âü ø Wéç   ¦ ¥ "¤ ¤ £ ¥  E ¥ ¨ ¨  ¨©¢ ¡ ¦ ¢    ¢ ¤Q ¨PW  ¢ ¢ ¤  %f5 õ ë ëP(  ( í ©óï s ð ©óÓì©ðï(ét ó ó¡©þD ï IþIû ì î óÂø ï îrÂþï ©ø  ì óÂÓïõr U © ùu ìÉ ëQ  $ ) ó5§ ! ¡ ÿ éÁÂð ï î ©óìFû©ë ï ï (üû©Âï5 ì ë¡ÂþE ø î °øG ð£  ëÂ" ïr ó Âþï ï î5  é ÁëÂðFïûr¡ é »ü§ ê þI©ûì5 î óÂ1 ø¡ ó7 þ  y % þ©v ïp î¡ ó éÂ ì ór ù é¡ ü  ùu ó ÿ¡ é Iîì© ìD î ó© ìî Iø(ìÂór ø ü êÉ ë eï°øðÓÉ õ ïu é óÂ©ìì¡(ü û¡ ó ©þ ï $  óÓ ðG ô ©ëïgr ù5 é îÉr ø ÁéÂð(ïÓóÁõ¡ õ ü¡n  Ó õ5 ð î (íó ù5 r é î Iø(ìÂóïÓr õv U ( öp ø óFIûì¡5 ü Âëø (íÂóÓïðE ê) ë eï°øÓðõ ¡ ó þÂD ï óÂv ï °î¡ õ¡ ü 0¡ ð é5g î í Âëï  ö ør5 é ÁëÂðïF û ÁóÓõõuFëû  í ÂóïÓa ð 5¡ ó) é Âó ï î ó©Fìû ©ëïr ø5 é ÁëðÂFïr û é¡¡ üg  A %  ï FêÁó) õr ó Âþï ï&  î5 ì îrS  é5Á ë ðÂ ïu î Áÿ ð ôn î é Áéð î) ír ó ÂþR ï ê ë 9  © ëï ¡ ó þ© ï ï î é¨D  ë¡Â þ& ø °øð ø éuÓë©ðeïp r û ÓóÁõ5 õ (ë¢ û  í ÂóïÓ" ð (ì¡ ó þ© ïx ë êÉ ë eï°øÓðõ q 9 % u ó ÿ îr©  ó¡Â þt ïr ÿ Óéð©ï ðp ùó Q )  ùu  ó¡ ÿ ér î þI¤ û óP   é î û þI°û¡ ð¨ þ{  © ø ì ÂóïÓr õ U ù©u ìÉ ë Q$ ) 5 ót ! ëË ) ï5 ì1 ë ór5 éë ù5 r éî  ø ó©ï Âðø5Ë ó©   ï év î ô Óó õ ÂóR ì ê3 ë éuÓë©ðeïp û Óó õ óD øÔ î í5©ë»ìê g ø í ÂóÓïR ð êë ¥S ü óu ù îg& í °øð u é ëÓ©ðïe û óÁÁõ5 õ ëFs û °ø¡ ð7 þg  9 % óu ÿr î F¡ ó ©þï5 ê& ë ïu øg ë& í ø Áó¡ ð 2 F ¥ ü (û û§ ë 7u é ëÓ©ðv ï (î°û ðr ù é )Qý 6  ù ÁóÓõ5 õ (îz û é5ÁëðÂFï û ÁóÓõu õ Fëû (íÂóÓïz ð éq $ % øI( ì5 ói ) ° î õS¡ ÿ Óéð© ìn î þ¤ ø ùr5 éS î ÿ¡Áéð©5 ì ÁëÓõ5 ð î©ï ö ïu p ì ënPør é IîìÂï 5 é ÁëÂð ï îg©í5 ì »ë¡ ê Óé¨ ð¡ ó ©þ¡ ï êS ë5 é ÁëÂðï©î ï (ég ó í Óó¡ õ  Óéð5 õ Áî©ðï ¡ ð Áéð

Liquid Mirò: Semantic Softlinking to Support Cooperative Document Exploration
Aaron Quigley Smart Internet Technology Research Group CustomWare School of Information Technologies 200 George St Sydney University, Australia Sydney, Australia aquigley@it.usyd.edu.au nathan@cutomware.net Nathan Lee

Abstract
In this position paper we present a non-intrusive mechanisim for evolving the overall quality of semantic relationships between elements of information in hypermedia document systems. The evolutionary aspect of this work is an application framework that includes a combination of hard links and temporal soft links between exisitng documents. A hard link completes the binding between two documents in the system upon creation, wheras a soft link delays the binding until some later time. The ablity to monitor, weight, integrate, delay, and then order the soft links is what offers the power in Liquid Mirò document systems. Here we focus on the use of hypermedia document systems which support exisiting online communities, ranging from social to professional groups.. Keywords Mangement Personalised Documents, Document

1 Introduction
On-line distributed hypermedia environments for targeted communities, continue to evolve at an unfettered pace across the web. In support of these growing environments, numerous navigation and exploration mechanisms have been employed. These mechanisms include, structuring the information in a hierarchical manner, site-maps, navigational patterns, link previews, textual and visual search engines and associated expressive query languages, end-user centric structure and review, along with expert manual intervention. Due to the volume of information, and the speed at which it both changes and grows, any structuring mechanism incorporating repeated human intervention becomes less efficient [1,2,7] and hence less useful. Here we present a novel community based mechanism, to improve the quality of the overall hyper-linking structure, within a given community using hypermedia documents. This mechanism is
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

further encompassed in the Liquid Mirò web application framework to couple existing document repositories to emerging client device types, both desktop and mobile. The goal is to allow specific communities to evolve abstract, un-predicted semantic associations, while presenting the information in a fluid form that can be interacted with via any class of device type. Online community environments range from governments providing logistical information and support, to educational institutions providing distance education support to both educators and students. The typical model is for the few owners of the online environment to publish information as hypermedia documents which are then read by regular users of the environment. In contrast to this, numerous on-line portals offer features, which more closely mirror the notion of a community as a group with "common rights and privileges". On-line portals that offer communitybuilding features include Yahoo groups and CNN interactive communities. Due to financial considerations such portals are turning to increasingly sophisticated software and interaction paradigms to reduce the manual effort involved in supporting, maintaining, and growing such on-line communities. This paper presents an application framework for supporting communities using a variety of desktop and mobile access devices, as shown in Figure 1. This framework incorporates all the navigation and exploration mechanisms noted, along with the evolutionary formation and structuring of semantically relevant soft links. Instead of relying on manual effort to create lists or relationships we propose to let the actual usage of the system create and evolve the interconnections between elements of information. The rest of this paper is organised as follows, Section 1.1 describes the background of soft linking and semantic web structuring. Section 1.2 describes related work. Section 2 describes the Liquid Mirò framework. Section 3 outlines four possible Liquid Mirò web applications.

Other Clients (e.g.WAP/I-Mode phone )

Legacy LegacyData Data Store Storeof of Medical MedicalInfo Info

Java Beans DOM

XML/ http
DTD

LiquidMirò LiquidMirò Data, Data,new new nodes nodesand andlinks links

Presentation Engine
Legacy Data Element marked up with Soft links AMAMedical Membership Database Organization Database
DTD

HTML/ http

Desktop Client
Server

Figure 1: Example Liquid Mirò application overview for coupling a large legacy data source, data from a professional user organization with semantically relevant linking

2 Background
Many online communities are now centred around hypermedia systems, which superimpose an external structure on data [2,6]. Experience has shown that large-scale hypertext systems requiring extensive manual support are costly, error prone, and difficult to maintain [1,2,7]. These problems stem from the fact that even with support tools, maintenance is a laborious and often painstaking task. The concept of hypertext soft linking between elements of information is not new and has been explored in file system research [8], software engineering [1], digital libraries [3], video streams [5], conceptual hypermedia [6], via dedicated services [3,4], and in online services such as Everything2. In the Liquid Mirò application framework we present a more generalised and powerful soft linking mechanism. Liquid Mirò based applications include the ability to monitor, weight, integrate, delay, and order the soft links before they are incorporated into elements of information. Figure 2 indicates a soft link formation and

ordering, between non-connected legacy information elements that is typical of Liquid Mirò applications. Here a registered user starts exploring the information at node X via existing structures, search engines, hard links or other mechanisms. Once the user arrives at another elements of information (a,b,c), Liquid Mirò creates a bi-directional soft link between the now semantically related elements. Based on other users usage patterns, the relative strengths of these links change. Depending on the application and user type, if other users don't follow such soft links, they eventually disappear, to be replaced by new soft links. Dedicated soft link services provide a remote link lookup facility [3]. These services rely on augmenting web documents with soft links prior to delivery to the client. The end point of these links are determined via a dynamic search mechanism when the link is followed. The remote link service provides the end point of the link i.e. it determines the "late-binding" of the link. Soft link structures such as conceptual indices, are automatically formulated based on an analysis of the overall hypermedia structure. Concept indices provide a temporal cross-linking mechanism, which represent

X
Legacy Information Elements

<Hard link>

(b)

Legacy Information Elements

(c) (a)

Navigation/Search Nodes

Figure 2: Example semantic soft link creation by user navigation

semantic relationships rather than pre-determined links.

2.1

Related Work

to evaluate which existing data sources are suitable for integration. The basic criteria are that the legacy information elements can be embedded in a hypermedia system. Often the legacy data is stored in a relational database or flat file system. In the case of legacy data in a special format it can be fully reengineered into a presentation independent format such as XML, or wrappers can be developed to access the data. Once each element of information can be uniquely distinguished by the system, then the information can be incorporated into a Liquid Mirò application. Next a soft linking scheme must be decided upon to seed the legacy information units with soft links. Textual information is suitable for such a soft linking treatment, with soft link selection based on partitioning along words or phrases using a simple scheme. For a more sophisticated approach it is possible to integrate with one or more legacy information sources to determine where the seeded soft links may be found.

Slashdot is a prototypical online community, which is focussed on "News for Nerds and Stuff". This site allows its members to submit stories that are effectively moderated before they are posted on the web site. In the long term, a regular user can become a moderator. A variety of factors go into deciding which users become moderators and for how long. The end result is a pool of eligible moderators that represent the average positive Slashdot contributor. This ad-hoc approach has many limitations and still requires a great deal of manual intervention on behalf of the moderators. Everything2 is social experiment, which is trying to form a large peer reviewed information web. Everything2 incorporates a soft linking scheme and aims to allow users to read, write, and share quality information. Within Everything2 it would not be possible to create a special purpose e-community to cater for example, to medical professionals or educators with specific needs. The vast quantity of irrelevant, incorrect and ambiguous information would soon render such a system useless. In contrast Liquid Mirò applications incorporate soft linking with an existing high quality document repository Systems based on this approach also allow registered users with different levels of access, and makes the information easily accessible across device types.

3 Liquid Mirò
The Liquid Mirò application framework is built around a mechanism of extending existing legacy data to incorporate a dynamic record of usage-based semantic associations within the data. The first step is

Development of a mechanism for the presentation of soft links and tracking of their usage requires knowledge of the presentation medium. This part of the Liquid Mirò framework is responsible for altering the community usage information associated with the existing legacy data. The emphasis is on creating a mechanism that enables the users to find the most appropriate links by themselves. The seeding process is merely to enable the most useful semantic associations to be discovered quickly. This mechanism permits a user viewing a particular piece of information to travel to what others or the system regards as the next relevant piece of information. This traversal creates a soft link if not already in existence or strengthens an existing soft link. The strength of the soft link can be represented in a number of ways by simple ordering, colour, size, or the use of glyphs.

Request Web Page

<Link>

follow

JSP: Process Soft link Traversal

Data OR XML XML

Bean: Access Page Bean XML

Bean: Authority Bean

Response

XML JSP: Content Translator

WAP device
WML cHTML HTML

JSP: XML Retriever

Standard User DB Bean: Link type Layer Bean: XML to SQL Layer

Http

Professional Organization Authentication

I-MODE device

Apply appropriate xsl
WAP.xsl IMODE.xsl HTML.xsl

Soft link DB

Legacy DB

Figure 3: Liquid Mirò implementation (using JSP) supporting multiple client types, with client specific soft linking, internal and external user levels coupled to an existing information web

For more sophisticated implementations of Liquid Mirò, particularly in community based applications, a

creating a community determined "most relevant" set of associations.

An ordered soft link view is integrated with the existing JavaDoc class description to aid in exploration The ordering is determined by device type, weighted user traversals and time

Acknowledgements
Particular thanks to Brett Anderson, Kersten Fernandes, David Hemingway, John Hinton, and Jeffrey Pond all whom allowed us to use screen grabs of their respective Liquid Mirò applications.

References
[1] Oli Kai Paulus, et. al., Adding Softlinks to the Web, 8th Joint European Networking Conference, http://www.terena.nl/conf/jenc8/proceedings.html [2] Monika R. Henzinger. Hyperlink analysis for the web. IEEE Internet Computing, 5(1) pp. 45-50, January/February 2001. [3] Leslie Carr, et. al., The distributed link service: A tool for publishers, authors, and readers. In Proc. Fourth International World Wide Web Conference. O'Reilly Associates, 1995. [4] Eytan Adar and Jeremy Hylton, On-the-fly Hyperlink Creation for Page Images, in Proceedings of the Second Annual Conference on the Theory and Practice of Digital Libraries, 1995 [5] Jason W. Smith, et. al., An orthogonal taxonomy for hyperlink anchor generation in video streams using ovaltine. in Proceedings of Hypertext 2000, pp. 11-18. [6] Mark d'Inverno and Michael Hu, A Z Specification of the Soft link Hypertext model, In ZUM'97: Proceedings of the Tenth International Conference on Z for Users Bowen, Hinchey and Till (eds.), Lecture Notes in CS, 1212, 225-240, Springer-Verlag, 1997. [7] Leslie Carr, et. al., Conceptual Linking: Ontology-based Open Hypermedia, In Proceedings of WWW10, May 2-5, 2001, Hong Kong.

weighting of both the influence a particular community member has and of the relative importance of the Soft Links when generating the presentation format might be integrated into the tracking and presentation mechanism. This can be achieved by integrating a separate user modelling system. For example, senior members of a community or organization might have far greater influence over junior members in terms of the affect their actions have upon the soft linking within the system. In terms of influence over presentation of soft links, weighting of soft links frequently traversed by community members using a similar type of browser might be higher than those used by members viewing with another type of browser (small screen mobile devices versus traditional web browsers). Figure 3 shows an example application permitting assignment of priority via integration with an authentication server and through separation of presentation logic from the main application through the use of XML and XSL to easily tailor the output format. The emphasis is on determination of soft links at request time rather than a-priori. The example software engineering application of Liquid Mirò shown in Figure 4 demonstrates how an existing information service (the automatically generated API documentation of applications developed in the Java programming language) can be enhanced with the addition of soft links. The standard JavaDocs are a set of HTML pages that provide information on the software application. This takes the form of a page for each class in the system with in-line hyperlinks to any associated classes. With a Liquid Mirò framework built around this information source, the users of this system will reveal further relationships between the classes that are then available for use by others. The soft links are created as the software engineers navigate the documentation,

How to Write a Document in Controlled Natural Language
Rolf Schwitter Centre for Language Technology Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia schwitt@ics.mq.edu.au Anna Ljungberg Centre for Language Technology Macquarie University Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia anna@ics.mq.edu.au
age of this language, ECOLE ­ a look-ahead editor ­ has been created and especially designed for PENG. The look-ahead editor guides the writing process and guarantees well-formed syntactic structures that can be translated into a formal language.

Abstract

This paper shows how a computer-processable document can be written in a controlled natural language (PENG) with the help of a sophisticated lookahead editor (ECOLE). The editor provides syntactic hints after each word form entered and indicates how the author can continue the text. This way the author does not need to learn or to remember the restrictions of the controlled language. PENG documents are automatically translated into first-order logic via discourse representation structures. These formal entities can be checked by a theorem prover for inconsistency or consistency can be revealed by a model builder.

2

PENG by Example

Keywords Document Processing, Languages, Authoring Tools.

Controlled

1
Documents such as software specifications or technical manuals are hard to write, as they need to be unambiguous and precise, the opposite to the qualities inherent in full natural language. Moreover, documents written in natural language are often hard to process automatically and inconsistency is difficult to detect. An alternative would be to write, for example, a software specification directly in a formal language. However, formal languages are hard to learn and to understand as they often abstract away from the facts of the application domain [4, 7]. A better strategy is to combine the advantages of a natural language with the advantages of a formal language and to hide the formality as far as possible from the authors. A controlled natural language, which is precisely defined by a restricted grammar and lexicon, can fulfill these requirements [1, 5, 6, 11, 12, 13]. PENG is such a controlled language and allows authors to write their texts in a well-defined subset of English, a language which is familiar to them [13]. To guarantee the painless and efficient usProceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

Introduction

PENG is a computer-processable controlled language specifically designed to write formal documents. PENG consists of a strict subset of standard English. The restrictions of the language are defined with the help of a controlled grammar and a controlled lexicon [13]. Let us illustrate the coverage of PENG by means of the Dreadsbury Mansion Mystery, a simple puzzle that is used in the literature [10] to test the capacity of automatic theorem provers. The puzzle is usually translated first by hand into a formal notation and the consequence of the puzzle is then proven by a theorem prover such as OTTER [9]. Using PENG, the manual translation becomes unnecessary, since PENG texts can be deterministically translated into first-order logic via discourse representation structures. Below follows the Dreadsbury Mansion Mystery in PENG: A person lives in Dreadsbury Mansion. The person kills Agatha. Agatha is an aunt and lives in Dreadsbury Mansion. Agatha is a person. The butler lives in Dreadsbury Mansion. The butler is a person. Charles lives in Dreadsbury Mansion. Charles is a person. Every person that kills a person hates the person and is not richer than the person. If Agatha hates a person then Charles does not hate the person. If a person is not the butler then Agatha hates the person. If a person is not richer than Agatha then the butler hates the person. If Agatha hates a person then the butler hates the person. No person hates every person. Agatha is not the butler. Who kills Agatha?

2.1
The lexicon of PENG consists of predefined function words such as determiners: a, the, every, no, who, ... prepositions: in, than, ... copula: is negation: is not, does not coordinators: and, or The
[ adjective | noun ] [ relative clause | verb | negation ] [ determiner | name ]

Controlled Lexicon
The most important feature of ECOLE are the syntactic hints. After each word form entered, the author is given a list of choices of how to continue the sentence. These syntactic constraints ensure that the document remains unambiguous and precise. For example, when the author starts typing the sentence The butler hates a person, ECOLE displays the following look-ahead categories as subscripts in angle brackets:

3

ECOLE User Interface

subordinators: if ... then, before, after, while The butler The butler hates ... that build the structural scaffolding of the controlled language. User-defined content words such as nouns: butler, Agatha, Dreadsbury Mansion, ... verbs: lives, kills, hates, ... adjectives: rich, richer ... adverbs: deeply, ... can be incrementally added or modified by the author during the writing process with the help of a lexical editor. Thus, by adding content words, the author creates his own application specific lexicon. In addition, the author can define synonyms for content words and acronyms or abbreviations for nouns. Illegal words (especially intensional words) can be defined in the lexicon by linguists.

2.2
Input:

Controlled Grammar

As the example shows, the editor makes use of graphical means to display these syntactic hints as a help to the author. Not much linguistic knowledge is required to use this information as signpost. If something is unclear, then the author will be able to click on the displayed syntactic categories to get more information about that particular item. The editor also handles compound nouns such as Dreadsbury Mansion. When the first noun Dreadsbury has been entered, the editor will respond with the second part of the compound noun Mansion and all other suitable look-ahead categories. Another feature of ECOLE is the paraphrase that informs the author how the machine interpreted the input. Below follows an example of an input sentence and the paraphrase that is generated:

Agatha is not the butler. Paraphrase: Agatha is not [identical to] the butler.

The controlled grammar defines the structure of simple PENG sentences and states how simple sentences can be joined into complex sentences by coordinators and subordinators. The grammar also specifies that simple sentences have by default a linear temporal order and that sentences can be interrelated in a well-defined way to build coherent texts. Simple PENG sentences are: A person lives. A person lives in Dreadsbury Mansion. No person hates every person. Agatha is a person. Agatha is not the butler. Complex PENG sentences are composed of simpler PENG sentences: Every person that kills a person hates the person and is not richer than the person. If Agatha hates a person then the butler hates the person.

The paraphrase thus makes it clear to the author that the copula (is) followed by a definite noun phrase (the butler) is interpreted as identity. If the copula had been followed by an indefinite noun phrase such as (a butler), then the machine would interpret this as a property and introduce a state. PENG allows only well-defined forms of anaphoric references (definite descriptions and names, but no personal pronouns). The paraphrase displays how anaphoric references are resolved during parsing. An anaphoric expression is always replaced by the complete antecedent and the form is put within curly brackets. In PENG an anaphoric expression refers to the most recent accessible noun phrase that is suitable in terms of agreement, gender, and type, with respect to the nominal head and the pre- and postmodifiers.

Input: A greedy butler lives in Dreadsbury Mansion. The butler is a person. Paraphrase: A greedy butler lives in Dreadsbury Mansion. {The greedy butler} is a person. Another feature of the editor is the discourse representation structure (DRS) [8], which may be of interest to anyone wishing to see how the semantics of the information processed is represented. This feature can be used, for example, to teach students logic and computational semantics. A DRS captures the information in a multi-sentence discourse and shows the relations between the entities, the states, and the events in the application domain. From the following input the user will see the corresponding DRS: The example above shows that butler only appears once even though it is entered twice in the input sentence. At first glance, PENG documents look informal and are easy to read, but they are in fact formal entities with all the nice properties of a formal language. Once translated into first-order logic these documents can be checked for inconsistency by a theorem prover or consistency can be revealed by a model builder [2].

4

How ECOLE Works

Input: Agatha kills the butler. DRS: [A,B,C] named(A,agatha) event(B,kill(A,C)) butler(C)

When the author types a word form into the editor then the current (partial) sentence is sent to the chart parser via a socket interface. The chart parser processes the input and generates the lookahead categories. These syntactic categories are then displayed together with the paraphrase, the DRS, and the syntactic tree for the input for the options chosen by the author. The grammar of PENG is implemented in the definite clause grammar (DCG) format. This unification-based approach allows us to resolve anaphoric references and to build up the DRS, the paraphrase, and the syntactic tree during parsing [3, 13]. Here is a typical grammar rule in DCG format: n2( Agr, Index, Quant, Drs, Scope, ParaInParaOut, [np,T1,T2], Gap-Gap, Ana) --> det( Agr, Index, Quant, Drs, Rest, Scope, ParaIn-Para, T1), n1( cat:cn, Agr, Index, Quant, Rest, Para-ParaOut, T2, Gap-Gap, Ana). The chart parser processes such grammar rules top-down and produces edges according to the rules of chart parsing [5]. The edges have the following general form: edge(START,END,HEAD,BODY)

The first part of the DRS consists of a list of discourse referents A, B, C for the two individuals and the underlying event. These discourse referents are then used in the second part, which consists of conditions for the discourse referents. When a noun phrase is found to be anaphoric during parsing, it is directly resolved and not added to the DRS: Input: Agatha kills the butler. The butler is a person. DRS: [A,B,C,D,E] named(A,agatha) event(B,kill(A,C)) butler(C) state(D,be(C,E)) person(E)

Such edges simply tell us, what categories of a grammar rule (HEAD  BODY) can span the substring of words found between the START point and the END point. We can distinguish two types of edges: active and inactive edges. An active edge is a hypothesis about a structure and an inactive edge is a result. For example, if the author types the determiner the into the editor, then the chart parser produces the following edges (simplified here): edge(0,1,[det],[]) edge(0,0,[s],[n2,v2]) edge(0,0,[n2],[det,a2,n1])

edge(0,1,[n2],[a2,n1]) edge(1,1,[a2],[a1]) edge(1,1,[a1],[a0]) edge(0,0,[n2],[det,n1]) edge(0,1,[n2],[n1]) edge(1,1,[n1],[n0]) [3] M. A. Covington, D. Nute, N. Schmitz, D. Goodman. 1988. From English to Prolog via Discourse Representation Theory. Research Report 01-0024. Artificial Intelligence Programs, University of Georgia. [4] N. E. Fuchs, U. Schwertel, and R. Schwitter. 1999. Attempto Controlled English - Not Just Another Logic Specification Language. Lecture Notes in Computer Science 1559, Springer. [5] G. Gazdar, C. Mellish. 1989. Natural Language Processing in PROLOG. An Introduction to Computational Linguistics, Addison-Wesley, Wokingham. The first edge at the beginning of the chart is an inactive edge which contains an empty list []. It represents a confirmed hypothesis and shows that a determiner has been parsed sucessfully between the nodes 0 and 1. All other edges are active. That means that the chart is maintaining hypothesis about other structures that might follow. The look-ahead categories are generated in the following way: During chart initialization the length L of the intput string is calculated and as soon as active edges are added to the chart that end at L then the leftmost category on the right hand side of a grammar rule is collected in a list. This results in two look-ahead trees from which the lexical categories noun and adjective can be easily derived. [2] J. Bos. 2001. DORIS 2001: Underspecification, Resolution and Inference for Discourse Representation Structures. In Blackburn and Kohlhase (eds): ICoS-3. Inference in Computational Semantics. Workshop Proceedings, Siena, Italy, June.

Aerospace Maintenance Language. Issue 1, Revision 1, January.

5

Conclusions

[6] C. Grover, A. Holt, E. Klein, and M. Moens. 2000. Designing a controlled language for interactive model checking. Proceedings of the Third International Workshop on Controlled Language Applications. 29-30 April 2000, Seattle, pp. 29­ 30. [7] M. Jackson. 1995. Software Requirements and Specifications, a lexicon of practice, principles and prejudices. Addison-Wesley, Wokingham. [8] H. Kamp and U. Reyle. 1993. From Discourse to Logic. Kluwer, Dordrecht. [9] W. W. McCune. 1995. Otter 3.0 Reference Manual and Guide, Argonne National Laboratory, ANL-94/6, Revision A, August. [10] F. J. Pelletier. 1986. Seventy-five Problems for Testing Automatic Theorem Provers, Journal of Automated Reasoning 2, pp. 191-216. [11] S. G. Pulman. 1996. Controlled Language for Knowledge Representation. Proceedings of the First International Workshop on Controlled Language Applications, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, Belgium, pp. 233­242. [12] R. Schwitter. 1998. Kontrolliertes Englisch f¨ ur Anforderungsspezifikationen. Dissertation, Institut f¨ ur Informatik, Universit¨ at Z¨ urich. [13] R. Schwitter. 2002. English as a Formal Specification Language. Proceedings of the Thirteenth International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems Applications (DEXA 2002), Aixen-Provence, France, pp. 228-232.

This paper demonstrates how an unambiguous and precise document can be written in a computerprocessable controlled natural language using a sophisticated look-ahead editor. Writing PENG puts no demands on the author when it comes to learn or to remember the rules of the controlled language as they are efficiently taken care of by ECOLE, the look-ahead editor. The use of the look-ahead categories guarantees well-formed expressions and provides the necessary structural basis for the semantics of the controlled language in a completely compositional manner. PENG texts are deterministically translated into first-order logic and can be checked for consistency.

Acknowledgments
This research was supported by Macquarie University's New Staff Grant (MUNS 9601/0078). We would like to thank Mitko Razboynkov for developing the first version of the look-ahead editor, and David Hood for integrating the controlled grammar with the look-ahead editor.

References
[1] AECMA. 1988. The European Association of Aerospace Industries. AECMA Simplified English, AECMA Document PSC-85-16598. A Guide for the Preparation of Aircraft Maintenance Documentation in the International

T§f ò ð7  ò 0  ¢§¯ ï¦ ø ÷X ¢ ¡ E § ¦ ¯ ö ø  %  ¤ ð¯ ï¯ ø¡  × ö¥ P 7 P  õ ¨  øR` 1¤ ðf ÷r ðU y ¤ ð¯ ï@ ø ×õ P e  øyf ÷A ð ¤ ñ ö ù7  ò ð¯ ¤ ïk ø ¢ ð§ ¦ ö`  îRy ÷ õÈ" î F ð   d °  ÷ õA ¢ øÈf îo ð¾ í ½÷w ¢ 0 E9   òR½ ÷¯ ¢ h  T!   ð ù ò ø X0EA   f òð  ø½ ¨ ¢ ÷h ¢ ¯ ð§  ¯ ö ør î¯ ö¨  ø   ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ öo î¤ õv ¦ ëi ê D é7 P  õ ÷y½õ¨ ¢¢ ø ö  õ% V p ð ð¤¯ ïX ø7 P õ ð¡  ) ( P ñ¤ òx ð P ÷k ò t¢U· ø ¨ ! T  ø ÷A ð ñA ñ õÈ$ î   × õ PUÍøF P òR   ¦ ! B  ð î ¤ õi  @'  X òô ® #§ ù ÷¨ ¤ ¢ ðR ð ÷½ ¢ ¤ ùE ÷ acÈ øR ð¯ ÷%  ¯ ð ø ÷¨4vH   ô u a ¨U ÷ ò ì % © ½ ÔP ¼D ¿ « ¨ f ÷¤ ð ÷T õ ( Ù õ  ñ  õ ) P %y ð V9¨ ¢¤ ð ¦ t ¡ ¢ g ï ô 0T¬ !   ð ù¯ ò¨ %  9 ð  ê Ó í ¢ ê© í   × õd P R ù ½÷R ¢ R ¦  õ îRE ÷a i ë  ê é« ª ¤ ð¯ ï" ø 7 P õ R E S ¦ ¯ ö øi  ¯ ð  f ò îÌ ò ¢ ð t¦t ¢ F V  õ¡  d ( F ð ©  p  ÷õ A ¢È øf îo ðí ÷v ¨ T§¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï î §i ë êÓ é ¤ ù ½÷¢§ ÷ ù' ¢!  ¢ ð ¦   õ× P ¯ ð¡   öb ø ò ð øÞ0¢U   ø ÷ ð ¨¡  öÈî ð¯ ¤ ï ø÷ ¢)%ð  ¢ ùõ ¤ õ£ ¦ õR¯ ï øÈA ð  ñ øf ÷¯ ð%  ðT9 R ¢  ¦ øb¢ ò R  @ õ õd   ¦ ÷õ A ¢È øf îo ðí T!  r ð (£Eu ø ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï îr   ø ÷ ðf ð 2R ¢ ¥ ¦ ¨   õ`  îy" ò 0E¡  ¡ ( 7 ( " ò  E A ò  ñ!  ð½§  9 (¢ R î ÷½¨ ¢¡  ( y ÷ ù½A ¢ %¢ ð ¦W ø ÷ ðA¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ¤ ¦ ëi ê é F  R õÇ ï %  ¯ ð¨ §  È ö î 0¡ ¢ ¡ ¦ ¦§P ÷ òVr ð£ ( u Eø ¢ ò ñf¤ ð ï¯ î£  %¤ ð¯ ï ø¤ õP ÷p ò ¯ õ ø  ó ô7 ó ¤ ð ïX ø%   ð7  R ò () ñ õ î)y ÷ õ½¨ ¢ øf î¢ ðí T%% ð¡   ö øR î öA  ø  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õp ¦ ¤ ð ÷ ¦§ ÷© ò t¦  p õ R ð¯ ï ø ¯ ï ø õry õ6  ø  ð øb¤ òR ¦ A õ ñA ñ õÈf î î¾ ò ¯ õÇ ø % ¦  ð 9¡ ¢  ö!  ¯ ðX  r ðv y  E ¢ ò " ñ § ÷ õA ¢P ø ò Õî9¢§¡ ( 7 ( ò ð7   g ò u  øÍ7 P õo í % T ¨  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öo î¤ õ¢ ¦ ¤ ù ÷A ¢ ø 0R ¢ ` x( ð ¤ ù ½÷¨ ¢b ø¤ òq ¦ ¡ ( A ö 7 P 9 õ e øt  õÈî  ð î¡  öy õ!  ¯ ð  ùR½ ÷¡ ¢ ¯ ö§  f ÷ ðA§ ¦ P ÷ ò %  ¤ ð¯ öA t g ¢ u E øÞ0 ¢9 § ¢ 9 y¨ ¢ øbR ò) ( ñ õR î ÷U ¢ ÷y½ õA ¢¨ %   ðV ð7   ò  ð¤ ðg ï ô T e øt  õÈÇ î  øP ÷ ò îT21¡ ¢ ÷y½ ùA ¢¡  ÷C ¢ øÞ¡  ¯ ö%   ðW  ¯ ð§  ¯ ö ør î¯ ö ¨ ø y ø ÷fA ð ¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ ¦ ¯ õ øª%  ðR ùP ÷R ò ï î  õ7 D A ò ñ ø ÷¤ ð ö%   ð¡     % T %   ð 0V  y õVð ð ¡  ö øR î öA  ø  øf ÷$ ð R ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õb ¦ ¤ ð¯ ï øÂ  Â ò §  ÷õ A ¢0 £ ¢ V ð    ¤ õ ÷ ¢)( ñ 7 P õ ¦òf¯ ð ø§  ÷ ¢ y ì ð f ò ð  ð  ÷y½ õA ¢ e  ð V ï î òð ¯ ï ½øH ¢ ¯ ð§  ¯ ö ør î¯ ö ¨ ø y ø ÷fðA¤ ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õ ¦ ¤ ð ï ø7 P õ§  ÷y½ õA ¢t t ¢ % V ¯ ðw  ò ¨ ¢ øy ÷ ò ø §¡ y ¯ ö  ÷ ¢ Þ ø§   ö!  ¯ ð E ò¢ñ ÷y½  ùA ¢%  ¤ ðQ ¦ 7  Õ òA ¢ ø½¡ ¢ ÷ ¢   o õ õ  T% ¦ ¯ ð§  öÚ ð7  ò e  øyf ÷ ðA¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ¦ i ë  ê é¤ ð ïø  ï Õî¡ ¢  ï ÷ d ¢ øyf ÷A ð ¤ ñ ÷ õ 9£ ¢ £ V  ÷ ð ¤ ð ïV ø ¯ õ ø %   ð ùRP ÷R ò ïî  g  õ  ìe  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õ ¦ ëi ê éiR ð¯ ïÙ ø 7 P ¦ õ  ð ù¯ òS  i ö ¤ ð¯ ïÌ ø ¤ ù ÷ 0¢9¯ õ¨  øyy ÷ õÈî   § ÷ õA ¢P ø òr î 91¢` îr ðA ( 6¤ ð¯ ï¾ ø  õ ø"%   ð ùRP ÷ òR ï9 î ð¡  7 y ¤ ò t¦ ¢ õy V R ò¤ ÷ ö ñy¯ õ  P 0 ¢ 0 § ¢ ¯ ïp ø !  ðA½ ñ¨ ¢ øÈA ð  ño õ í % T %  ¯ ð   ò ð½%  ¯ ðd  y ÷ õ½A ¢¨ %   ð V  ðRÇ ÷ ½÷I ¢ ¤ ù ½÷¢¨Þø§   ö!  ¯ ð ìA ð ñA ¢0 ø  ðF V m õ ð0Vy õVð  ÷¯ ð Íø P 4 õ %   ð¡  ¯ ö øÈR î¯ ö¨  ø   ø ÷A ð ñ¤ ö¢ î@ õ ó T ðA  ñ õ î¢ øy ö õ ð½§  7 y  ò 9A ¢%  ¢ ðS ¦ ¤ ÷ö R ð¯ ïP ø õRP ÷ò  õø ¡   ¦ f ò ð   õ t7  ò ð¡    ö ø îR öA  øC  øyf ÷ ðA¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õw ¦ 7 P Ï õ ÷y½ùA ¢%  ¤ ðd ¦ o õr õg ( f ì%   ð% V  ð F  @ õ f T ¨ % %   ðS  D ö P 6 õ u E øÞ§ ¢ ¤ ÷k ö A ñ ñ õ¶ î ¤ ð¯ ï6 ø Et y % ¦  ð ¤ õy ÷ ½ù ¢ ùR½ ÷% ¢ ðry 0  ¢ f ðR  ¯ ö   E A ò ñ ð ù òR ö¤ ù ÷ ò  ¡ ( o öA @  òA6 ñ % ¦ ¤ ðy ÷ ½ùA ¢%  ¢ ð ¦990 ¢ ÷g ò P ø òR¯ ïø ðb ¯ ø »òPU ø e  F õ w  ¤ ðg ï s ô  T  ÷ ù' ¢!  ¢ ð ¦  P Ç õ u EÞ ø 0¢7  r ò öy  ¤ ð ïi ø ¤ ù ÷ 0¢9¯ õ¨  øyy ÷ õÈî  ×  õ P    ñ t¡ ¢  ÷R ò ïf î ðAñ  ð×U P ¯ ð  6 ò ¯ ð%  ¤ ð¯ ïÓ ø  ï î§ ¢  ï    P t õ ì!   ðP ùr ò ö¤ ù ÷ ò ( öo¨ ¡ @7  ¢ ò r ñ P ¶ õ  ÷ õA ¢P ø ò%  × ð P20¢   õ¡   ( ¤ ò t ¢  ð  ðR¯ ïb øf ì¨  ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ ö¢ î¢ õw ¦ ëiêé ùR÷½¡ ¢ ÷y½ ùA ¢ %¤ ð ¦  × õg P E ù õ  ¤ õ£ ¦ R õ¯ ïÈ ø ðA¢ ñ ! ¦  ð t¡ ¢ ÷y ùÈ õ î¯ ð  9 E%  ¢ ð ¦0H ¢ U   ò P ø¤ õ÷ 0 d ¢  ð¤ ð ïÓ ø ¯ ð§  ö òf î ðT5 y S ¦ P ÷ ò ìy ð ùR ò ö¤ ù ÷ò p¡ ( o ö¨ @7  ¢ ò ñª¾ ò ¯ ðP øf ò ð `î õø¦½ð§  g ( ñA ¢  E9¨  ø ÷ ð7  R ò¡ (  ( ò õ¥  t ¥ ¢ ½ øX ¢ ¯ ð§   ö òf î ðTg y §  7 ( r ò¯ ï%   ð T7    © 3" é7  ë a  ¤ § ¦  ÷ òF  5 © ¢ ò  ñR ð ï¢ îÏ í ëi ê  é ¢ ð§ ¦ ö` r î ÷½ ¢ !   ð 0VA ¢P ø òR¯ ÷%  ¯ ðø

7 9  ò¯ ð%  ¤ ðg ï 0 ô T ð¡  ö¯È øR î¯ ö¨  øi  y øf ÷A ð ñ¤È ö¢ î¢ õ ¦ i ë  ê  é ù¤½÷¢A¨ %   ð ¡R ( ` xð P A 7 õ R   E òg¥  ¤ ð ïP ø¦ õ  ð7   ò ïî § ¢  ï H ì ©ÈR ¨ Á Öª « ¿A É ¨¤ § ®¦ ©  ð¤ ï øPi õ R ð¯ ïø P ¢ 7 õ ¤ ð ÷y¢ õ  ð S9 ö õ¯A ø ð¡  y9A ¢ ¨  õT ( 0  ¢ ½ ø ¢ " ì  ó  ô  ó ð¤¯ ï¦ ø  õ$ ø ð0V¢Ab ør ò ÷¯%  ¯ ðø 7 9   ò P ÷ ò 5  T ð¡   ö øR î ö A ø  ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õ6 ¦ R ð¯ ï ø 7 P ª õ ÷y½õ¢A¨ %   ð ¡R ( ` xð ÷ òi P õ ø ¨%  × ð` P ðX  òAf ñ ð¤ ï î  ò6¯ ð%  ¤ ð ï  f ì¨  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ ö î¢¢ õ ¦5i ë ê ô " f é  ×  õd P ¢ ¿ ÉÈ¨R § ® © 6 ò t ¢  ó  ô ó ëi ê ô" f 9 é ¤ ð ïF ø  ì ð ¡) ( P ñ¤ ò` x¢ ð   õ¤ T   ÷ õA ¢b øR ò§ ¦  ÷A ð ñA ñ õf î ð  ¤ i ë êÓ é ¤ ð¯ ï øs¯ õ¾ ø ùR½÷¢Re ¦   õ îy î© ò h B ó ô »ó4 ÷y½õ¨ ¢ øÞ¡ ¢ r ÷ 1` ð ó¦T ð£ ( r E ôy øf ÷A ð ¤ ñÈ ö î¢ õ Ì ó  ò ù¤÷ ` ¢r î ö¢R ¦ õ¯¡  ) (   òA¥ B  ñ ð ð¯ t ¦ ¡ öF õ "½ø ¢ ¯ õ "  × õ 4 ð¡  ()ñ ' ¢     ò 0h ¢ Þ øS ¢  ìy ðP ù òRy ö ù¤P ÷ Õò  ¡ ( öoA @  ò¢6 ñ ò ðP ¯ øf ò ð` ¦ î d õÙ ô Ty ðP ù ò §w ö  P õ9u E øÞ0 ¢9 § ¢ 9 yR ¢ ` x ðrw v ¦§P ÷i ò u E½ ø` ¢Õ î 0¢¡  ) ( ½ ñA ¢h  ¨½ ø" ¢ t ¢ ë   ê 7 é 7 P " õ §  ÷y½ õ ¢¨ ø î òA ¯ øb ø òP ½ð§ ¢  ï î ¤ ð ï ø 7 P  õ ¤ ð ÷¾ õ 0E¡  ÷7 ¢  ò ø¯ ð s T i r ë Ù ê ¡ 3 i í P ÷r ò¯ ïø %  ð¤¯ ïP ø ò qi ë  ê Ú é  ï ÞøH ¢ p  % ¦  ðb ø Õò¡k ö  ñ  × õP ¯ ði  Þ ø6 ¢ %   ð¯ ðh  ìEi ë ê ô " f é ì ëi E ê  ô g f 7 P õ( ÷ õ' ¢ e ðy6 V  ø!  ð¯b ø Õòd  ¤ ð¯ ïø  ÷y ðc V ab T  ðR î ÷ ð` ¢ îY  S ¦ P ÷ò ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ ÷ ðF V y õ ù¢¤ ì Õò) ¢  ñ¢ ð ¦ ò î ò6y ìA E ¨ øS  ¢ ö§ ¦ ÷ ¢X P ¾ õ ¡  0 ¦%  R ðW 1 ð¤ ïÂ ø ÷¢ % ¦ ðy¯ ù%  ð$f ñ ðwy ð V R òd ï!   ð ùR ò ö¤ ù ÷ òU  ¡ ( öoA @  ò¢ ñ E£ ÷i ò D ê% T ¨ øf ÷$ ð R ñÈ ö î¢¢ õ¦ ¤ ù ÷A ¢§  ¯ ö ø îr¯ ö ¨ øC  S ¦ P ÷ ò ù¤÷ R ¢ R ¦ õÈr î ÷k ð ×õQ P ¦¨  ¤ ò ¦§P ÷ ò øI  k ò 6 ò y ðP ù ò§  ö ¦   ò¯ ð ¡A (%  ¤ ð 0¦H ¢ G% ¦ ðF E  õ7 D  ÷Ò ð   r ò ïÒ½øC ¢ ìÈ! B  ð ùR ò öR ùP ÷d ò4 ë ¡ ( öoA @  i ò ê $ % $ # % ¦ f ð 980¢7   ò¤ ðf ÷ ð 6 3 ¨ ¦  ¤ ò§ ¦  ÷ ò ø í5 4 ëiêÙ¡ 3 íi! ¦ R ð 210¢¡  ) ( ñ' ¢ ¥@ ò   ò & ÷" ¢ ! ¦ ð  f ò ð  ð   g ò   ¥ © y ÷ õ½¨ ¢b ø¤ ò§ ¦ f ÷ ðA$ ñ ñyÈ õ î ð¥ ¤ i ë  ê éE¤ ð ï¯E øÈ ðR î ÷£ ¢ í ü  üû ú ý  ¡T  @ ¥ @ ÿ þ¤ ý ¡¢  y

§R  t  t  ~  § |   g  7      t w %    }~ u S | 0 rt e st` re e kq i } p  o £ | 7 { f  q g S d {§z I | wt pm e£ i    y q w § { Q z S h t gm ef k  p y¡ w  x k§ g   q w  p §  U  v u £ g 9 rm e£ i 0 rt s r ¨ e k iqU p i o m l kX n f  m lr k j£  R i f h t gf e d7  !  §  `   

 ø ÷ðA ñ ðyP ùR ò ÷i ò @ ê  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öo î õ ó ì  k ó ôó ¤ ì ò¢f ñ ð¤ ï î¢í i ë  ê é E ìi ë  ê % é D èw çr æk å t ä ã9 â á  Ô © ¨¯¢ ¬  «R ®  ¬ «© «È r ¸¢ ¨ ¢ É f ®y ° Æs© ´ p ³  ²  ± °iP ¸ »°¹¢ « ËP ¼w ° ÊA ¨ ÆTP ¸ ¿  © © ¨ ®¯ °T ¬T Ár «È ¸¢ ¨ T É Á ½°È ¼b ¨Ê Ã  ¨Ì Æ ¤ ¨ ×§« P ¸ª ° b Ö ÆR  «Ç © Ó ¿ P ¬ °È" ±  ¨È ¬ ¨R¦ §  ¨b © ¿Ì ® ¤ ¨ ×§A « «R ¸ ¨ ©¯ ¨f ¬A Á 9 ¨ à ÔÈÈ ©¯ ¨¢ ¬  «ÈR ®  ¬ «g © R « ¸ ¨A¢ É  ® °Æ  Ð ¨T ¸ Æfb ¸ ¿9½ÆP ¼ °¢¤ ¨ ×§i « ×§b « °¦ º  °$ « · ¨P « ¿Æ Ã¢ b ° $ É b É ° ® ® ¿A°·" «  Æ ¨¯Í¬¢ ¹  ß ¨¯ ¬  ¨A º ÖP¿AÙ É ¤ ©P ¸ »°¹P « ¿»®Þ¹T ¼ Á Á¶ ¿ ¨¯P ¬w ¿ Ð « ±° Ý Ô»©r « ¸È¢ ¨ ¢ É È ® °Æ Ä Í¸ ¹ « Õ©y ¹¯ Û ¨ Ä Í¸¹b « ¿R Æ Á A ±6 ° © «b © ° ® ¨¯ ® ¬¢b  °È © ¨¯¬ Ä Í¸¹ Ã¢  ©RÈ ¸9 ¨ Æfb ¸$ ¿ ©ÈR ¨  © Õ©¹ Ö Í«Ë¹Í¼ ¹ »º¹P «¤ ¿@ Á b É °f ® Í¸ ¹ b ¸ »° ¹ ©È ¬b ¨$ Ê  ¨o ©b  ¿Ç ® b ¸ ¿® ©¨ Ä P ¸¤ ¿ §Ù ® P ¼¯ ¿¢ ¬  «ÈR ®  ¬ «Ó © ¬P ° Ü ¿ ³B Ô Æ ¨ © © ¨¯f ¬È Á Û¯ ¨  ¨Ï º b ¸ ¿ ® ¨¯¢ ¬ « ÃR È ®  ¬ « © R « ¸ ¨A¢ É  ® °Ú Æ © ´ Ù ³  ²  § »®¢ ¹X §Ç Ð Í¸¹Aw © Öbw ¿ 7 Ð r «È ¸¯ ¨ ¬@ ¨ ØP ¹ Æ ¨¤×§«  ±¾ ° ÖË ¼R « ¸ ¨ ÆT ¸ ¨R· Áy ¨ ÆTÍ¸¢ ¹ ©¢ ¬ È ® ®© ° Õ©o ¹f § ¦ f Ô ¨ ¬¢ «R ®  ¬ « © R « ¸A ¨ É¢  ® °Æ ¨ Í§Ó R «  ±¾ °  © ¨w © ¿ ¨½ ¼¯ ¨ ¬Òb ¸ °» ¹ © ¬w ¨Ñ Ê È Ðf ¨ ¸sT Æb ¸Ï ¿ P ¸ »°¹P « ½¿¢ ¼$   Éb ¬È ° ±¯ ¨Ç ¬ °« Ä Í¸P ¹ Æ ¿¨½k ¼ È Î ¨AÍÉ¹¦ « ¬Èb ¨b Ê °Ìb ¨ ËÊb ¼ °bÈ Ê( ¨  ¸ ¨ « ±¦ ° ©«R ¸¢ ¨ ¢ ÉÈ  ® °Ç Æ  Å ¨ Ä ¿R Ä ÃP R ¸d ¿Â ´  Áb  À¯P ¬ ¿ ¾ ³ ¨½ ¼ »º ¹ ©¤¸· ¨¶ « ¯ ² ¨ µ © ´ p ³  ²  ± ° ¨¯¢ ¬  «R ®  ¬ «ª © ¤ ¨f §¦ T   ¥¤¤ £¢ ¡          }P   ~© W Q W  T  Q  e  w x u et | {f X zf z y0 i  9 x  v  xT t c v ev  u T sr qp o n$ c m l " j hig    uf   e x vTd       © f T  cf e c b a `y v   T  cw u f qf x cD h (    v ` y v yX `© Y  xw vX u ts r T q c$p i hT c T eX c cb ad `Y R¤ g  ©    ©  b ~  D Q     }    ~© ~} W Q W  T  7d SW  e  w xf uD et | {Df z zT0 y  i ¦9 x  vf  xf tw c vy ev  u str T qp o n$ c m l k j hig    u  f e x vTd       © Tf  c eT c b a ` v@  fcw u  qf x c hX    vy `  v X ` Y y xw vD uD ts r qf$ c p i T hg c f ed c cb a `XY SXE WV U STR QP IH G ¤¦ 7 C £¤F ¡ ¦ 5 £ED C¢ ¡  BA ¡ @    9 8 7 £ 6 5 4 ! 3 2 1 0 ) ( ' " & % ! "   ! ¨© ¡  £$ # " !    ¦  ¡ ¦ © ¨ ¦ § ¦ ¥ ¤ £¢ ¡  

T%%  ¯ ð  r ò7 y  òP ø¤ ò} ¦ R ò ÷ õA ¢P ø ò%  ¯ ðQ    × õ Pp% ¦ ¯ ð§  Ç ö ¯ ð  õR¯ ï¦ ø ò  ïR î öU   ì t ð £  R ¦ $ õ  ñ ÷õ A ¢P ø ò¢¯ ñ ×õR P ÷½q ¢ ñ õ  P % ¦ y ð V9¨ ¢¤ ð ¦ r ð¥ y  E ò¢g ñ e  øyf ÷ ðA¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ¦ # # © ñR ëi ê  é7 P p õ  ð¡  ¯ ö øÈR î öA  øU  ¤ ð ï ø b øR ò ïg ø %  ¯ ð õT (  õ¡   (   õg ï ô T¯ ð §¯ ö ør î¯ ö¨  ø y ø ÷fA ð ¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ ¦ ëi ê ¶ é Põ  ÷ ùA ¢%  ¢ ðY ¦ § ¦ ¤ ÷ ö¯ õ©  R ù ÷½¨ ¢¡  ¯ ö§   ÷¶ ð P õ  E  ùð A b ø òA  ø  0 ¦ ¢07  b òH V d ò 0 ¢ ¢ ò  ñ ðR ï¯ î¥   ë  ê Ù é P ÷@ ò  õF ø ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï î£   ð R ò7 y  òb ø¤ ò¦ R ò ÷ õA ¢P ø ò%  ¯ ð«  ò y ñ¯ õ Y P  ÷ õA ¢P ø òA  § ÷ ò¨ 4 ø    T  ðR îP ÷R ò 0¦¢ õ V ò'  ø½¡  P ö »òP ¦  § ÷ò  ÷ ù' ¢!  ¢ ð ¦ ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï î§  R ¦  õ õy ù ¤ ù ÷A ¢¡  ¯ ö§  f ÷¦ ð %  ¯ ðA !  ðÈ¢ î¯ õ§  § ( ¦§P ÷ò %ð ¡  (9¢ R î ÷A ¢¡  g ( ! ¦ r ð ( õ½%   ðV¤ ð¡ ¦ 9%   ð    ð V r ò ïR ìR ù ÷½0¢ ¢ ðR ¦ õA$ ñ  ÷ õA ¢b ø¢ ò ñ  × õP  ÷½ R ¢ ¯ ð  òR y  òb øR ò£ ¦   òR ÷ õA ¢P ø ò%  ¯ ð¥  $ ò ïr î öt   ì t ¢ ðR ¦ õAk ñ y ÷ õ½¨ ¢b ø¢ ò  ñ  × õR P ÷¨ p E  ¡ ý m l k  ü'   ~  m g þ  ý  | m¤  £D ¢ £D  £ j ü  ú idy nE¤ ý ¡  üA   ~ m þ  ý | ý¡   X  £ T n w ¡  ý  üyû  T !  ¤ ð ï î ò¯ õ¡  § ( 7 ( 7 ò  ðR¯ ïP øÙ õ A ð  ñ¯ õw  § ¦ P ÷r òE ì ëi ê   Õ ò£ ¢ V)¤ ù ÷½0¢ ¤ ð£ ¦ õAñ y ÷ õ½¨ ¢ øb¢ ò ¯ ñ ×õR P ÷ ¢  ÷w õ ìRR ù ½÷¢0 ¢ ðR ¦ A õ d ñ B r ¤ a¥ 4 9 (¡ ¢ ¯ ï§  ÷y½ õ¨ ¢b ø Õò  ð  ¤ u E½ øA ¢ øE ÷a ÷yõÓ! ¦  ð  òR y !  ð½ ¢ ùõ   ¢ õR ¦ ¤ õ ï øÈA ð Â ñ %  ½ ð£ ¢ % V ¯ ð¥  F ð d  ÷õ A ¢È øf î¯ ð}  t ¡ ¢ ¯ ï¾ ø ÷¨   ü ¤ m  n ÿt ¥ ý j   a |    ü  ü  £   d m j { z y w ¡  ý  X mr      ý ~E7 ý  þ @ ý  l   } m |  ü¡   y     p T   ÷ õA ¢P ø ò Õî¢9§  (¡7 ( ò ð¯ ¤ ï¾ ø e  øÞ§ ¢  ö   ø%  T ðC y b øR ò ï ø r ð£ ( u Eø ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï î5  ¤ ð ï ø 7 P õV¢ ò  ñR ð ï¯ î ò  õø ! ¦ ¯ ðP ø òA §  P ÷ òA  ø ðT y  ÷R ð¯ ïø P ÷f ò î ¢ ðR ¦ A õ  ñ ¤ ðg ï ô Tr ð£ ( u Eø ¢ ò ñf¤ ð ï¯ î  ¤ ð ï ø  P õ øyf ÷¢ ð§ ¦ f ÷r ð% ( ¢ ð§ ¦ ÷p ¢  ð¡   ö ø îR öA  ø5  øyf ÷ ðA¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ¦ i ë  ê é  ÷ ùA ¢%  ¢ ð ¦  õø § ¦ P ÷ ò ¢ ðR ¦ õAñ  õÌ ø §  öf õ ðP ù ò øP ÷b òR V  ¦ ò ðry õ 0 ¯ ò  E ¢ ò  ñ øÞH ¢ y ì¯ ð  õ$ ñR ð¯ ï¯ ø¡  ¤ ö  % T %  T ð£ ( u E¾ ø ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï î¥  §  öy½ õ ¢¨7  b òV ð¯ ¤ ï ø õø ! ¦ ½ ð 0¢¡  ¡ (  ( B ò T ð y ÷ òî P ø òR¯ ïø !  ½ ð§  (9¢ R î ½÷¨ ¢¡  ( ÷ù A ¢%  ¢ ð¦ 7 P % õ ÷y½õ¨ ¢b øf òr î 21¨ ¢ ø ÷¢ ð t¦¢ ¤ ð¯ ïø ¯ õ ø ¦ ò ½ð  E A ò  ñ !  ¯ ð §¯ ö ør î¯ ö¨  ø øy÷fA ð ¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ ¦ ëi ê © é 7 P õ y ÷ õ½¨ ¢¢ ø ½ö õ% V  ð ðR¯ ï6 ø  P õÚR E § ¦ ¯ ö ø  T¯ ð §¯ ö ør î¯ ö¨  ø y ø ÷fA ð ¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ© ¦ % ¦ ¢ ð§ ¦ f ÷¯ ð ø ÷ ¢ ¤ ð ï ø 7 P k õ §   ÷ õA ¢P ø ò ø ÷¯ ð%   ð¡  ( ð  7  R ò ö øx¯ ðø E9%  ð¯%  ðAñ  ð7   ò %  T ð£ ( u E ø0 ø ÷ ðf ð 9R ¢ ¦ ¯ ð%  R ð¯ ïø  P B õ A ò f ñ¤ ð ï¢ îí T!  r ð (£Euø ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï î  ø ÷ ðf ð 2¡ ¢ ¦ ¤ ð¯ ï ø ÷¢ % ¦ ¯ ðA !  ¯ ð¡  R ( x ð ðry ÷ òÑ  î P øR ò ï   ¯ õ ø 9E%  ¯ ðP ø ò R ò(¯ ð % ¦  ð¢ ð t¦' ¢S   ÷È õ î0r ð y t¦¡   öR õ ï ð¡    ö øR î öA  ø   ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öo î¤ õ¦ % ¦ ¢ ðS ¦ ÷¯ ð ø ÷¢ ¤ ð ï ø4 ìe  øyf ÷ ðA¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ¦ i ë  ê é ¤ ù ÷½§ ¢  ÷ ù' ¢!  ¢ ð ¦ ÷¢ P øR ò¯ ïø ¨  ø%  ðy ù¤ ù¯ ö  0§ ¢ g ï ô T E0   ð 0@0¢A !  ½ ð X ÷y ðV ð tH ¢ t ¡ ¢ ¯ ïo øf ì ¨ ø ÷ ðAñ R  È ö¢ î¢ õw ¦ x`ð ¡  () ñÈ õ î7  ¤ õr  % T %  ðT£ ( u E ø  ø ÷ ðf ð 2R ¢ ¦£7 P g õ ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï î  õ u ø ÷f ð ðFu  øÈT ðI y ðÈr î ÷ ð7  b ò 9V¢§y ö!  ð ðÈ ø ð¡  () ñÈ õs î ò ð V r òÇ ï ¯ õ ø ½ð¡  0 yA ¢A t  õr(   R E g ò 9k ò P ø¤ õÙ ÷ t ¢ Þ ø¯ ¢  ì ðT£ ( u E6 ø ò¢f ñ¤ ð ï¯ îd   ï î òF ð PÙ õ %   ð¡  ¯ öP øf ò ×ðh P  ø ÷ð '  %T ð 9R ¢  ¦ ¤ ð ïp ø ¯ õ7 ø ¤ ð¢ ö¦ P øR ò¯ ï øAf ÷ ð¯ ð  r ð y ÷ ò î ½ø ¢ ìR¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï¢ îÓ í ëiêé ¦  § ÷ ò  ó ô¾ ó ¤ ð ïp ø 7 P  õ  ÷¯ õ tA ¢  òR) ( ñÈ õÌ î ðF V T õ7 y ¾ ò ¤ ð¯ ïø y ñ¯ õ§   ¡ T ò¢ ñ¤ ð ï î   ó  ô ó7 øy î òR) (  ñ õÈp î  ð  õAp ñ ¤ ð ï ø" õ6 ø ! ¦ ¯ ð ø  òA ø   R ÷ õ î90¢p§ ¦  ÷© ò §  ÷y½ õ¨ ¢b ø ò7  Õ ò`  î¢ ðv ¦  ðt  r õ¨ y  ðyQ V  ð  õAÒ ñ ½÷w ¢ eÞ ø§   ö!  ¯ ð 0  ¢§¯ ïX ø ìf%   ðVF ð F  õ7i f T e ø ÷ ðA ñ ð  ð ! ¦ ¯ ð ø%  ¤ ð ÷iò £ ¢ d V % ¦ ¯ ð¨ %   ð¡  R ( x`6 ð ð7  ò  ø ¨ ÷ ðA ñ ð  ð 7 P 7 õ S  9 (¡ ¢ ¯ ï§  y ÷ õ½¨ ¢b ø Õò  ð  7  f ò î§ ¢ ï î   ò%  ½ ð¡ ¢ k ï ¯ ð $ õ  ñR ð¯ ï¯ ø¡  ¤ ö T  } ó ôó6¤ ð ï" ø ðy9@¢0¡  ¤ ÷d ö ì ey øf ÷A ð ¤ ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õW ¦ ëiêéi% ¦ ðA ñ  × õ P 20  F ð   ò ¦%¯ ð ¨%   ð¡  R ( ` x ðA¯ ð Ù ò   ¢ ò  ñ¤ ð ï¤ î¢ í  T % ¦ ¯ ð¯ ø  T õ¡ ( ¡ ( ¯ öw   õ t7  òA¯ ð p ò %  ¤ ð ö7  b òV %   ð ùf¯ ð ø½÷b ¢ ¤ ñ ö"½ñR ¢ 7 x òAi ñ ¦§P ÷ò ¤ ñ" ö ½ñ¢§½÷) ¢ ¶ ñ T î 12¢ f îT ð' (q   ì e ø ÷ ðA ñ ð ð P ( 7 õ EuÞø¢07  R ò ÷R ¢ ¦e7  f òA î P9 õ   ¯ ñ%  ¯ ðV ø ÷¨ T% ¦  ð ø r õ§ ( ¡ (  öv   ð7  òi!  r ð£ ( u Eø òb ø¤ ò ¦i% ¦ R ð ÷R` 1¢ ð! ¦ ¯ ð § ( Pp õ T ð} y ¤ ño ö¦ ÷ d òR ì òAf ñ¤ ð ï¢ îí i ë ê¾ é ÷¨ T¯ ð¡   ö ø îR öA  ø  ¤ ð ï© ø ÷H ¢  ø ÷ ðA ñ ð  ð  ï î ò6 ð £ E  y t ¦ R ðp ï r ð¥ y  E ¢ ò ñ øR b ò ï ø  òb ø òR ¦ ¤ ð¯ ïÌ ø ÷yÙ õ  ø ÷7 ¢ òA  ø§  ÷ õ î T ðt ( u E ø  ò øb¤ ò6 ¦ R õ¶ ÷ t ¢ ¯ ð%  ð¤¯ ïø ìt§ ¦  ÷ õ îfðoD í T ÷õ A ¢P ø ò  ò f î¢ ð¥ ¦ y øf ÷A ð  ñ ð w ð ð  R ù ½÷A ¢  $ ò ½÷¡ ¢  ï ÞøH ¢   f ì ¨ ø ÷ ðAñ `  ð i ð ¤ ù ÷¨ ¢A ¡   ö î¢ îi õ d  ¯ õ9 ø g  ª ò ïR î¯ ö £ ì!  ðÈR îf ÷¯ ð¨ ¡  öÈf î¢ î" õ %   ð ù ð ø ÷½¢ ÷7 ¢  ò ø %ðÈ î ¤ ù ÷A ¢A !  ¯ ð¡  R ( x@ ð 7 P õ"§  P ÷ òA ð Ó ñ e ¦7  g ò ¨  × õ' P ø ïy½ù ¢  ò¨  øi  ¤ õ$ ÷ 0¢ ðR  ðg ï D ô` T Bhw x 4 £ E P ÷ ò¢Ù ñ ¯ õ ø ¤ ðy ÷k õ ¦§ ÷ òyÈ ì7 B w v¥ 4 £ E ÷A ò Ù ñ  õ ø R ð ÷¤ õ ÷y ì B tu4 ðR÷¤ õ ÷  õF¤ ð ÷yõ f !  ½ ð¨ ¢ øÞ0 ¢7  r ò ½÷R ¢ e ¦7  f òF î f ð¯ ð §¯ ï ø¤ ù ÷½H ¢ Fõ 0   õ× P ¤ ð¯ ïR ø7 P F õ ð¤ ÷õ £ E P ÷7 ò   õR ìÈ ðr î ÷ õ ¡   ö î¢ î õ  E ¢ ò 7 ñ  ø ÷A ð  ñ ð 9 ð @ ÷ c   T u E½ ø 9¢R ò ÷R ¢ ¨ ¦   ò¤ î7 P õ ® #  % © ½ Ôb ¼E ¿ « ¨  ÷ ð¤y ÷r õ (Ù õ   y ñ õ¯P

÷ õ'  ¢¨ %   ð¡  R ( x`Ì ð ! ¦ ¯ ð ø½g ¢ ñ0 ¢}  ð V òrÙ ï ¨  ø ÷A ð  ñ ð d ðf ì ø ¨0¯ ¢ g   T ð¯¡   ö ø îR ö A ø ø  ÷A ð ¤ ñ ö¢ î õ¢ ¦ R ù ½÷¡ ¢ r ÷` 1¢ ðS ¦  P D õ §P ÷ ò$ ð  ñ òD  ò§   ÷ õA ¢P ø ò½ø) ¢ ½ ñ 0¢    ò%   ð V ð¯ R ò ï ½ø¢w ð% V  ð F@ õ f¤T    ©  ÷ õA ¢P ø¤ ò§ ¦  ÷A ð A ñ  ñ õf î ð ¤qi ë  ê Ç é R ð¯ ïø ÷Q ¢ ¦!R ð 19` ¢f î ðTA (¥  r ð£ ( u E© ø ò¢ ñ ð¤ ï îI  0 E¡  ÷¢ õ ¤ ð ï ø 0¢¡ ó  ô 6 ó ð¤g ï ô T % %  r ð ( òRH ( t  ¢¡¯ ïX ø7 P A õ w   ÷ õ ¢A ø îo ðí ÷« ¢ ¡ E § ¦ ¯ ö øI  ¯ ð   òª î  ò t¢b ør ò ï¯A ø !   ðP ù ò¨ %  9 ð êÓ í ê¢ í ×õw P  ðP ùr ò öù  P ¡ ÷ Õò  ¡ ( o öA @  òAñs¤ ð¯ ïø  ñ õ d P ð¯P øR ò ÷ ¢ ùA ¢ i õ %  ð¡  ()P ñ¤ òxÇ ð  ð!  ð¤g ï ô T C ¡  ¯ ð¡  öy½ ù¯ ¢ §½ ÷ ¢  ó  ô Ç ó ¤ ð ï ø £ E ¢ y ! ¦ ¯ ðP ø ò¤0¦0¢7  b òv V T ð¢ y ÷ ò î b ør ò¯ ïø ø  ÷A ð ñ¤ ö î¢¢ õ ¦ i ë  ê ésP ÷Ù ò P7¦ õ ½ð§  g (  ñ¤ ò` x ðª ÷¢ ò 0¢ # ð¯§   ö ù~ ¢  T  ! ø ÷ ðA¤ ñö `¢ î¢ õd ¦ ëi ê  é ð¤¯ ï ø÷ ¡ ¢ ¯ ï ½øH ¢   % ¦ ¢ ð¡ ¦ ! ¦ r ðU y  ñ ð r ðg y õ¯0  6 ò  E A ò Ò ñ  ó  ô ó ð¤g ï F ô § T õø  ñ  × õ PRy ÷È õ@ î ø§  k ö  ñ e  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õ ¦i ë  ê 7 é P ø òR¯ ï7 ø %  ð ¢A½ øA ¢ø   ¡ ÷ ðA§ ¦ ÷ ò !  ¯ ð ø¢¤ ö 0y¨ ¢A  ø øPòf ì¨  øf ÷$ ð f ñ ½ð%  ð@¤ ð ï ø%  T ð 0y¢A î¯!  ¯ ð ¡Y ( ó ô ( ó  j kaj ú id  s d m r q p6Ï   Â £ o n mT l ¥o   ¡ m l¤  ý þ üÇ £  h T ¯ S õø ð ð¤¢ ï ¦ ò7 ø§  " ö ñF øf ÷$ ð R ñ öÈ¢ î õ¢g ¦ g ò P ø òR¯ ï ø¯ ð§  ¯ ö ør î ö¯¨  ø  ð¤ ï ø7 P õ© ÷ õA ¢ø R  0 (¨ ¢ ` î%  ð¡  (@ ò t¢6 ï Õî¢¡ ï q ìh B  ó  ô ó4 ÷ õA ¢½ ø¡ ¢ R ÷1@ ð " ó r ð£ ( E  ô  ø ÷A ð ñ  È ¡ ö¢ î@ õ  ó  ò ¯ õ ø  ñ  × õ PRy ÷È õi î  ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ öo î¤ õC ¦ ð¤¯ ï ø t ì% ¦ A ð  ñ  × õ P20 F ð  ù ÷¢ T ¤ ðg y  ò 0 F ð U    òAP øR ò¯ ï" ø §   ÷f òA ð ñ¢Þø¢ t ì t¦9¢  w ò V § ¦ P ÷ òs% ¦ A ð ñ  × õP  0 F 9 ð }  t U ¢  ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ ö¢ î¢ õI ¦  ò  ÷¤ ð ï h g % T ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ ö¢ î õ¢ ¦ ð¤ ïÇ ø ÷¡ ¢ ï¯½ ø ¢H e ¯ ðÈ ø î ò7  R ò ïD î7 P  õ  ð § ö ¯ ðP ø ò¨ ¢¡   (  õ¡  ¡ ( ( ò ðR¯ ï¢ ø S ¦ P ÷F ò   ùP ò6 ø (¡o ö¨ @ 7¢ ò ñ 7 P  õ ¤ ù ÷A ¢ ø%  ¤ ð ÷  ðT (  õ ¡U ( R ð ï¯© ø ¤ ù ½÷¡ ¢ § ¦ ö½ R î ÷6 ¢ ÷õ ¢AP ø òr î 91` ¢ îr ðA (©   ë  ê é ð¯ R ï øR  ET ð y õ y øf ÷A ð ¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ ¦R ð¯ ï øEP øR ò ï¯E ø§  P ÷ ò$ ð ñÞø ¢ t ì% ¦ A ð ñ  × õ¡ P 0  F ð  t  ¢  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ ö¢ î¢ õ ¦ ò9 ÷¤ ð ï ¡y ìA E  ò¢$ ñ R ñ ö6  ÷ ¨ F T » Æ Þ¹¼bb ¿¶ Ê    õ  Æ¢ ¨  Éb ¬È °± ËÃÍ¼ ¼w ¨ 6 Ð ðT y  E ò¢@ ñ  ø ÷ ðA¤ ñ ö¢ î¢ õ¥ ¦ i ò  ï Õî¡ ¢ ï    × õ P §   ÷ õ ¢A½ø¢R§ ¦ ÷yÈ õk î R ð¯ ïø  ð7   ò y ÷ õ½¨ ¢b ø ò¤§ ¦ f ÷A ð $ ñ ñyÈ õ î ð ¤i ë  ê " é R ð¯ ï9 ø ÷ ¢ % ¦ R ð ÷R` 1 ð¢X ¦ õt    Te m B! 4  øf ÷$ ð f ñ ½ð%   ð  ð¤ ïP ø õ  " õ  òb ø ò¤ ¦ øox ¯ ðø C   U1  ¤ e e¢   ÷7 ¢ ò øy ÷ õÈ¢ î  E ¢ ò 6 ñ § ¦  ÷ò T ù ò ø¢S ¦  ÷¶ ð ¤ ù ÷R ¢ § ¦ y ÷r õA (%   ð ¨  È õ$ î ò C   ¢ U   6 e   ù  ¢ U   e ø R ò¦ ï  õ t7  ò T òp ø ø¯7   ò ø¥  ¤ ðg ï © ô T ÷A ð  ñ ð 6 ð R ð¯ ïø P g 7 õ ø ÷¯ ð øy ÷ õÈF î ¤ ø öT õ y7© ò y ÷ ½õ¨ ¢b ø¢ ò ñ  × õR P ÷c ¢ R  E y ð V£ ÷È õ î b ør ò¯ ï¢ ø (¡o ö¨ @ 7¢ ò ñ C U1  ¤ e ¢ e    1 f ¢ & ¢ & 1 f T C ¤¢ U   ¤ e   y ò¤B  ì ð½¡  () ñ ò¢x w ð   × õPH 4  ù ò$ ø ! ¦ $ ð  ñR ò÷ P  7 õ  ðS  © ö ¤ ð ï¶ ø tg ¢ ¨  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ ö î¢¢ õ ¦ ¯ ð%  ¤ ð ï7 ø P7© õ ¯ ð §¯ öb ø ò ×ð6 P ¤ ù ÷¡ ¢ ï¯0  ¢§ öù ¡½ ÷¨ ¢ ø tR ¢ w ¦ ¤ ðg ï  ô Te©R « ¸¢ ¨ É¢È  ® °Æ © ´ Ù ³ s ² % ¦ ð9   òA î ¨È øf î ðR D  y i õ  òP ø ò¤¦ P $ 7 õ ¨  Õ ò `¾ î ¢ ò %  ¤ ðr ÷ 1`¢ ð ¦"  § © ÷õ ¢AP ø¤ ò ¦§ ÷ ðAA ñ  ñ õf î ð  ¤  ë  ê ¦ é ð¤g ï ô þ ü ÿw¤ ýE ¡ dT   ¥£   ® #¯  % © ½ Ôb ¼ ¿gÈ « ¨ ÷ ð¤y ÷r õ ( Ù õ y ñ¯ õ § P  ó  ô ó ð ù¯  ò¨ %  ðik ê  í ê¤ í R ð¯ ïÚ ø y ñ¯ õ P¯ øy î ò¨  øxk ð ! ¦ R ð 919¢¡) ( ñ£ ¢ í f   ð¡  y ö ½ù¯ ¢ 
C¤( t 1 u I¢¢ u 1 F  H Q w y X ¥   1  rV1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D   C t(1 ¤ u ¢ I ¢ u 1 F  H  Q  w y ¦ 0 B  ¤ U x  1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D   CT¢ F ¢ R X  ¨ 4 ¦  T  ¢ R 1   w t(¤    ¢  6  G   b G   ¢T  ¢  ¤ 3   6  B    y (1 d ¤ ` U¦ ` c  ¦ b T ) Ua¤ I 6 5  4 g¢ I 1 I uGE D   C T 6 t ¡¨X ¥      r iq ¡ ¦ 0 T  U¤   y ¦ b T ) Ua1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D    C F¢X R  4 g1 Q X W  4 a w ¢ u I¢1 u 1 F H ¦ 0 x     3 6 U ¢  T  (  ¥S¤ I 6 5  4 g¢ I 1 I uGE D    C ¢ F X R  4  g Q1X W  4 wa¢ u ¢ I u11 F a H 0¦  v )    3 6 U ¢  T  (  ¥S¤ I 6 5  4 g¢ I 1 I uGE D   C T 6 t ¨ ¡ X ¥   s r q i  ¡   `pE i ¦ b )U    3 6 U ¢  T  (  S ¥ 1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D  

ø  ÷A ð ¤ ñÈ ö î¢¢ õI ¦ i ë  ê é

f # ¤

ð¡  y ö ½ù¯ ¢ 
C   3 ¤ U ¢T    2 ¥ e¢  CX b T ) 1 U 1 e  ¢¦ C % " b2  ¨ " 6 ! (  1 d ¤ ` U¦ ` c  b¦T ) 1 U   C "¢#¢ ¦ & ¢ & ¢ & ¢ & 2 & ¨ " ¢ ! ¦ 0   "¢1 # ¨ " !¢¦ 0   )a   3 ¤ U ¢  (  2 ¥   C "¨ ¦ 0 1 ` Y 0 $E  3¤ U 1  T  (  X ¥  5 ¤ W X 5 " W ¢ ¢ R ¤ I  5  P V 5    3 6 U ¢  T  (  S ¥ 1 R ¢ Q P¢1 I  H  7 FGE D   C ¦ 1 ¡ "1B # 8 A ¢ @ ¢ 9 91¢ 8 ¢ 7 56 4 ¨ " !¢ 3 2  1 0 ¤   ) ¤ "(' &% $ ¢ # ¨ " !¤¦          ©¨ § ¦ ¥ ¤ £ ¡¢ 

C t¢2 ¤ 1 `¦1  T  ¤ § (  1 d  `  U X `  E i X F T 4   3¤ U ¢    (  ¥  i r1  T  G ¥y T  } ó  ô ó¢ò¢¯ õ øgt¡ ¢  ïk ø ¤ ù ÷A ¢P ø òA §   ÷ ò¨  ø S ¦ P ÷¤ òf ì ¨ ø ÷¤ ðy ÷r õ) ( y ñÈ õî ` T ¢  6    ¦  (  1 d `¤ U `¦x  ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D   ò øb¤  òi ¦ A E  ò¯¨ %   ðf î¤ ð¤ ÷R ÷i ö ¤ ù ÷ 9¢0¡  È ö© î ¯ ð  × õ P`ðT¯ y f ì ¨ øf ÷$ ð R ñÈ ö¢ î õ¢¢ ¦  ë  ê é C  ¤ t 5 1 ¢ U 0 E i X F T 4   3¤ U ¢    (  ¥  i r1  T  G ¥y 7 P õwA  ò   î 7Õò¡ ö î ¢¨ ø  òR ( g ò   × õ P)y ÷ ½õ¢¨b ø¢ ò ¯ ñ ×õR P ÷ ¢  òP ø ò¤U ¦ ¨ E7  ò¨ %  È ð î¤ ð÷ X `   T¤ d 4 3   ¢  ¢ ` T  6    ¦  (  1 d `¤ U `¦x  ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D   ð¯ R ï¶ ø R ù ÷½¨ ¢ øt 9 ¢r  %  ðy9 V   õ V£½÷¢t¡ ¢ g ï ô T ï î ò¯ õ¡  § ( 7 ( ò¢ ¬ y ð 9V¨ ¢Þ ø¡ ¢ ö ø ½÷¢  ª ð  A õ ñ C t ¤ r   B  ¥ q i  ¡ ¢ 5 p  q i B ¡ 66  (   ` U¤ ) 1  § ò   ðb øf òo îy õR V ¦E ò ì· &  © t ¦  õ7  ò@U f   ª ò  ïr î ö £f ì ¨  ¤ õ ï¯¢ ø ö ò$%  ð¤¯ ï@ ø   i ¡  ¦ ` ¢ )  q i  ¡ ¦ 0 ¨ q i ¡1  B ) 0 T ¨ % øf ÷$ ð R ñÈ ö î¢¢ õ¦ iqB ¡ 98 0 d q i  ¡  0 d iq ¡  U 0 i ¢ U  y     X ©    §   V 0 ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D   ë   ê k é R ù ½÷¢¨¡  ¯ öÈ ø îR ö A ø  × õ P " ó  ô X ó7 P  õ  ÷ ù' ¢!  ð¢ ¦ Õ î ¢ f ù ð¯b ø òA  ø  S ¦ P ÷ò 6 C  t 2 1 ¦ ` 1   § (  1 d  `  U ¦ `    i r1  T  G ¥y §× ö P`¯ ð  õTA ( ¡R ö (6 ò ¤ ù ÷A ¢¡  ¯ ö§  f ÷6 ð ¯ õÙ ø y ð V9¨ ¢b øR ò ÷ ðÞø6 ò ¤ ù ½÷¨ ¢ ø!  ¯ ð%  ¯ ð ø÷  ¢ P ÷ò ` ¤ ¢    ¤    ¦  1 d ` U ¦ ` B  ¢ e     X ©    §   V 0 ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D   ¢ ð t¦¢£F V ¯ õ¡  U ( %  o ð¢ õ ¦)Þø} ¢   ð% V  ð F  õ@Q f § T òb øR ò ¦¢i ë  ê  é ¤ ù ÷ 9¢%  ð¢R ¦ A õ 7 ñ 7 P õ C T ¤ t ¡TX   R   E g ò X  %  ¤ ð¯ ï ø¾ õ È ð î Õò¡% ( ¯ ð5  E0 ðÈ ø ð¡  () ñ õ î  õ¦ ø y ø ÷f òA ð 9 ñ P ø¤ õÌ ÷ ð7  ò i T q ¡ X ` T  ¤  ) iE2 F B 4    3 U¤1  T  (  ¥ q i  ¡ 511   §  ¦£R õ ï¯È øA ð F ñ 9% ¢ ð¤¯ ï ø b øR ò ïF ø  ð t¡ ¢ ÷y ù õÈ î¯ ðq  !  ° © ½ Ôb ¼ ¿E « ¨ ¤ ÷ ÷P¢ ò ¢ ñe ¦c  a ¡  T 3 2  ¥ (  p ` q i B ¡ 1p © q i  ¡ ¦ 0 ¨ q i ¡1  B ) 0 T   E y ù õ½  ¯ õ ø ÷$ õ ¤ ù ÷ ¢A ø ÷¯ ð%   ð¡  % ( ¯ ðH  × õ P y ÷ ½õ¨ ¢b ø ò ø¤ õt ÷7  ¢ ò ñ  × õU P ò iqB ¡ 98 0 d q i  ¡  0 d q i  ¡ ¢ U   i 8 7  U  0 yX ` o  6 ¥ 0 ) X d x  ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D   ì7 ¬ Õ î ¢ ùy õ ë A ð ñP ò¡   ª ÷U ¢ % ¦ ¯ ðA !  ¯ ð¡  R ( x " ð y ÷ ½õ¨ ¢b ø¢ ò ñ¯  × õR P ÷ ¢    ò Õî ¢  ù õ  õ ø ÷õ ¢ ! ¦ ¯ ð 0¢¡ ö%   ð ¢ ø¤ ö (¡÷ ¢X¤ ðg ï ôª T f ÷ ð0V¢ùA¨  øf ÷$ ð R ñÈ ö î¢¢ õ§ ¦ i ë  ê  é 7 P õ Tt ¡ ¢ ¯ ï øF!  ¯ ðP ø ò¨  ø §ö 09H ¢  ø îy ò¨ o ø` x ðÚ ó  ô ó¢¤ ù ÷½H ¢ Fõ 0  õ× P ¤ ð ïgE ô% T øf ÷ ð  tC  Õ  ò` ¶ î  ò ×õ¢ P  ó ô¶ ó  ò ¨¢ ø öRA (¢ ø öy¢ õ  ï î¡ ¢  ï F  ¶ ì ¤r a   #    ¤ "  !   @ ô       ! ð ù¯ ò¨ %  ðAÙ ñ í¤ êD í7  Õ ò¡   ö î¨ ¢ ø  òR ( ¤ ù ÷£ ¢  E P2¨ ¢ ø ÷¢ ð t¦ ¢ òb ø¤ ò ¦ %  ¯ ð øÈ î ò7  R ò ïî ¨% ¦ ð0 7   ò¢ î  õ õ ø¤ ð7  ògu Í ø7 P ¯ õ "F ò ðt  r õ ( ¯ õ¡  £ ( ½ Ôb ¼X ¿ «© ¨ ÷¤ ÷¢ ò ñ¢¨ ¦r  ¯ a T¯ ð§  ¯ öø  B  ¥ § F T 4   3¤ U ¢  (  ¥ ø ÷¯ ð % ð¡  % ( ¯ ð¡  ïÕ î¡ ¢  ï X   ìe  ø ÷A ð  ñ ð  ð r ¦  ÷ò X  ` î R ö   A  ø  H ø  ÷ f ð $ R ñ ö È î ¢ õ ¢ ¦  ¤ ð ï  ø "  õ ø  ð ¯ ø b ò Õ  ð    E % ð ¤ ï ¯ ø  F õ ¤  ï ¦ § ÷ P ò ¤ ì  ÷  ò f ð A ñ ð¯ ¤ ï ø ÷7 ¢  ò øyy ÷ õÈî ¨  ø ÷ ðAf ñ ð½%  ð ¦00¡ ¢  ï4 î  ð!  ¤ ð¯ ïÚ ø  P m õ £ E P ÷ ò ê  P t ù òø (¡o ö¨ @7  ò¢¾ ñ ¤ ð ï¯¦ ø b ø òr ï w¤ ø öT õ7 y ò y ÷ ½õ¢¨b ø¢ ò ñ  × õR P ÷W ¢ ù¤½ ÷¡ ¢ 0 ¦£ ¢ V  ¯  õ¡  ( P E õ§   ÷f ò ðA$ ñ ¨ ¦  ò¤§ ¦ P ÷ ò ø}  7 ò ð V R òF ï øP¤ õ¶ ÷ ¤ õ ¦g% E ð¤¯ ï ø¯ ð § ö òf îT ðy C¤t 12¦ b  ) T U  1 ¦ 6 b T ) U ¦ ¯ ! ð ½ø¢gñ 0¢©  ! ¦ ¯ ð%  ¢ ð t¦¢'§  y ÷ õÈîi ð7  ò"   ó  ô óÚ¡ T   ° © ½ ÷ ¢ A ò y ñ¢ õI ¦ A ð  ñ õ¯  12¢ ` T  6       `  §   0 P p 7 õ !  ð½¨ ¢ øÞ0 ¢7   ò¯ ðU   ¤ ð ïP øÌ õ § ¦  ÷ òD ì 0(¢¡¯ ï§  ÷õ A ¢P ø ò%  ¯ ðU  9 % ¢ ¤ ð ï¯X øf ì ¨¢ ø% ( È ðR îy ÷È õî  15   `  §   0 7 P  õ  ÷ õA ¢P ø ò îr91¢` îr ðA (  7  ¢ ò  ñ ×õU P g ò %  ¢ ð t¦£ ¢ F V ¯ õ¡  (A   E y ù ½õ  õ¯ ø ÷¦ õ 7 ÷   2 1 ¢ ` T  6    ¦  (  1 d `¤ U `¦ T ¤ § ù ÷R ¢ § ¦  ÷ ò ø¨ %  ð¢§ ¦ ¤ ÷ ö7 P t õ%   ð V ð  7  r ò ö¯¢ ø% ( È ðR îy ÷È õî  2  1 ¦ `   T  d4 3   ¢  ¢ ` T  6    ¦  (  1 d `¤ U `¦ 6 ò ù¤÷ A ¢ § ö ¨ øf ÷$ ð R ñ öÈ¢ î õ¢C ¦ i ë  ê  é ¨ E¤ ð ö ¥ õ ø S ¦ P ÷r òf ì ¨ øf ÷$ ð R ñÈ ö î¢¢ õ¦  12    X ©    §   0  ë ê7 é  ð¡  ö¯È øR î öA  øU  ¯ õ ø    ó ô ó  ð 0VA ¢%  ¢ ðU ¦ õ@ ø È © »¨¹ Ä ½°¼P· °r «b ¸ °R ù ½÷A ¢§  ö  2  1 ¢ ` 6  T  ¤    X  (  1 d ` U X `     X ©    §   0 7 P © õ ï îy ò õ¡  ¡ ( (9 ò P ÷p ò r ð y0¨ ¢ ` î%  ¢ ð ¦ ï Õî¢¡ ï   !  ° © ½ ÔP ¼g ¿  «¾ ¨ R ÷ ÷P¢ ò ¢ ñe ¦c  a  1 2 2 ` o  ¤ ¥ 0 ) X d  y    3 U¤1  T  (  S ¥ ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D   ð§ ¤ ¦ ½ ö R î ÷ ¢ ¨ øf ÷ ð$R ñ öÈ¢ î õ¢5 ¦ ëi ê 9 é ¤ ù ÷¡ ¢  ÷ ù ¢'!  ¢ ð ¦ 7 P p õ R   E g ò    ðR¯ ï@ ø   f  øf ÷$ ð R ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õv ¦ ëi ê p é ¤ ð¯ ï¢ ø £ E  y % ¦ ðA ¢¨ 7  f ò¶ î r ð¥ y  E ¢ ò ñ ¤   ü m  n t ÿ ¥ ý j b øR ò ï ø¤%y ðP ù òA !  A ð 6 ñ  í ¤ ê í7 P F õ !  r ð£ ( u Eg ø  ø ÷ ðf ð 2R ¢  ¦ ¤ ð ï¶ ø ¤ ù ÷A ¢ øf ÷ ð!  ¯ ð y idy u |   ü  ü  £   d  mþ  ý 7p¨¾ £    ¡ m l   R  ( ðc  e  øy÷fA ð  ñ ð A ð t¦9¡ ¢ ïg î  ø ÷ ðf ð 2R ¢  ¦  P " õ u E ø ½ð¨ ¢7  b ò V ¶ ò ¤ ù ÷¡ ¢ ÷7 ¢  ò øyy ÷ õÈî  a  36 U ¢  T  (  ¥ R øy÷fA ð  ñ ð ð  ð¯ ï¾ ø ð V r ò ïªF ð   ì ®® y ÷ õ½A ¢ e  ð V  ÷¨ T   ð¡   ö øR î öA  ø   ø ÷A ð ñ¤È ö î¢¢ õv ¦  ë  ê A é ¤ ù ÷¡ ¢  ÷ ù ¢'!  ¢ ð¦ T ð¡   0 ( ¢`R î ÷¨ ¢¡   ( ÷y½ ùA ¢%  ¤ ð ¦ øyf ÷ ðA¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õ¦ 7 P A õ ¨%   ðo î õ¡  6 ( R ð¯ ï ø ÷ ¢ y ð ùP ò ð% V ½ ð¥     ò  ÷ ù ¢'!  ð¢W ¦ § ¦ P ÷ ò¢tA ¢£  0 E7  r òP ÷ò i ë  ê é$½ð§  9 yA ¢A t  r õ (  ò  P " õ ðy9V¨ ¢b ø ò ÕîR ¢ ¦§÷ ¢  ¶ ò ¢ ø öyõi§ ¦  ÷ ò ø e  ø ÷A ð  ñð % ¦  ð øyf ÷ ½ð¨ ¢ Ó õ  øf î ð¡ D yÚ õ ÷v ¢ ¯ ð¡   öb ø ò ð øÞ0¢  7 P V õ R E ¦Rr õ y   ò¨ ¢ øP ÷ ò ø§  ¡ y ö¯  B  ¥ R F B 4   3¤ U ¢  T  ¥ ¤ 2%  ð r1 ð¯ ïÓ ø ¦§P ÷ò X ð¯ ï¦ ø  õ¦ ø ¤ ù ½÷¨ ¢b ø Õò  ð     ñ ð øÞ¢ R ð¯ ï@ ø %  ¯ ð §¦ ö E ù õ  ¤ õ£ ¦ õR¯ ï øÈA ð  ñ Ó ò ïR îo ök í % T ¨  øf ÷$ ð R ñÈ ö î¢¢ õ ¦ ò¢f ñ ð¤ ï î¢í ðy¤ ùP ÷ òR ï îF¤ ð¯ ï ø ìS   ÷ õ' ¢ e ðyH V  õ u  øw¤ ð¯ ïÙ ø f ÷ ðF ð u È ø ðT y  ó ô¤ ó ðP ù ò¨ %  9 ð ê  ë êw é g õ " ó  ô " ó  õ ø ½÷r ¢ )ñ ò P ù Õò¢R ¦ A  ò s ¤ ð ï¯¶ ø ¤ ù ½÷¨ ¢b ø Õò' S  P ÷ òA ø ® #v íÓ¢ ê© í ¤ ð ï ø 7 P ¾ õ  ÷ õA ¢¢ ø ö  õyV 6 ð ðR¯ ï ø ÷ ¨ T % © v ¦  ÷ õ' ¢e  y ð} V Í øF P òR  ¦ 7 P  õ A !  ðÈ¢ î õ¡   ( ò¢£ E  y % ¦ F ð F  õ9  × õ P7f ì ) ñ ò  ùPÕ ò ¢Ri ¦ i ë @ ê   ù¤½ ÷ ¢A§  ö© ÷ õA ¢ø ® ® ÷õ A ¦§ ÷7 ò  ©$  ¢¨ %   ð VUÍø7 P  ò¡  ¦ f § ÷ õA ¢¨ %   ðb V  ó ô6 ó  ðP ù ò¨ %  9 ð ê 7  òA ñ  × õ P¡½÷¢¤ ð ï ø ¤ ù ½÷0¢ ¤ ð£ ¦ õAF ñ 7 P õA ð ù ò øc  7  Õ òA ¢½ ø¡ ¢ ½ ÷i ¢ P ÷p ò t) ¢ ¯ ð%  ð¤g ï ô ® # íÓ¢ ê¾ í R ð¯ ï¶ ø Ps õ F õ u i ø ðT9y¨ ¢ ` î%  ¤ ð} ¦  % © ½ ÔP ¼ ¿ È «¨  ÷¤ ð ÷yr õ ( Ù õ  T ¨ %  øf ÷ ð$R ñ öÈ¢ î õ¢W ¦ i ë êé¤ ù ÷¡ ¢ ÷ù A ¢%  ð¢ ¦ × õ P %  ð ¢ y ù ½õ  ¢ õ ¦R¤ õ ï¯ ø ðA ñ   ò0 ¢ T¯ ð¨ y øf ÷ ð s í¢ êk í ¤ ð ï© ø  ï ÞøH ¢ )  ¤ ù ÷A ¢P ø ò Õî¡ ¢ ¤ ÷ ö"$ ñ y ñ õÈî #  g ñ ' ¢  H ¯ ð   õ T (  õ  ¡  ( ) ï ¯ ø  õ r y §  © f Ô ½ ¼ P ¿ E « È ¨ © @ e  î ð r y ¨  0 ¢   ¦ § ÷  ò r   ¦ X © ÷y õ t¨ 7  ò s × õg P t   õÈ¢ î õP ø õ¡  d ( ¤ ù ½÷¨ ¢ ø tR ¢ x`9 ð ðy§ V g 1 %   ð î Õò¡  ( ð  ø½¥ ¢ b ø òR ïA ø 0 ¢  E F ò  ü û uidy  a |   £   © ¨  üA   ~  m  þ  ý | ü  ý  RD  £ T n E ¡ ý y ` ¯ ð øPÙ ò 3W í ¢ êÓ í ¤ ð ïÇ ø S ¦ P ÷ò R   í ¤ ð ï ø ÷ ðF ð u  øÈT ð y × ð' P § ÷ ò¨ ¦ ø ð¤¯ ïø  × õ P ðyP ù òA !  $ ð Ç ñ % ¦ ¢ ðR ¦ È õr î ÷ ð ëi ê Ç é ÷Ó ò ¤ ù ÷A ¢ §7 ö 7 P 6 õ ðyP ù ò øy ÷ òbR V  ¦ ò T  ¡ ò øb¤ ò ¦7  r ò ÷ õA ¢b ø Õò  ð  § ¦ P ÷ ò i ë  ê ¦ é ¯ ïP øT õ¥ y 7 P õ ¦ ¯ ! ð¯ ø T õA (¡  R öU ( ¤ ðg ï p ô % T 0  õÈ¢ î¯ õ ø¯ õ §I (  ÷ õA ¢P ø ò Õî¡ ¢ ¤ ÷ ö"$ ñ y ñ õÈ î ½ð%  ¯ ð ø9` x ð¡  ( ÷ õA ¢b ø ò ø ÷¯ ð%   ð ¡(  ðr  Õ î ¢AP ø ò ø7   ì ð¡  7 y ò ø"  F ò ðT y t ¦ ¡ öF õ £ ð¢R ¦ A õ  ñ ¤ r a a  ñyÈ U õ îiÕò¢£ V ð ù¯ ò¨ %  A ð Ì ñ  í ¢ ê" í %   ð V0¢  ðf î ðv  § ¦  ÷k ò ¨  ø½) ¢ ¤ ñ¡ y ¯ ög  P ø òR¯ ï ø ð ¯ ï ø øbòR ï ø@t ¢ 0  ¢§¯ ïE ø Pk õ  ð ù ò ø ÷Pb òR V  ¦  ò ! ¦ ¯ ð¯ ø T õ (A¡  öRU ( ¤ ðg ï ¶ ô T¯ ð§  ¯ öø B ¯  ð¨  ø ÷ð s  í ¢ ê í 4 È ð Õît ¢ % V ¢ ð ¦ ¯ ð  F ò R  e ¦7  r ò ï ¤ ð¯ ï$ ø ¯ ï ½øH ¢ h  ¤ ù ÷` ¢ î» òA P ð ø ÷½¢ R  î R  ö  A  ø  6 ë i ê  é  ÷ P ò 7 ð  V 0 ¢ ¨  ¢ ð ¦ g õ ¯ ø $ % ¦ ð ¯  § ö © ÷  ð ¤ ï  ø ¤ t  ¢ ¥  ï î ¢ § ï    ì   ð ¢ ¦ R õ ñ A × õ« P R E  x ¯ õ¡  « ( ¦ ò   ¦ ò e ø îò  E g ò  ðb øÙ ò p 3  í ¢ êÇ í ¤ ðg ï ô TÈ ð Õî£ ¢ A V%   ð ` ¤ a « r a  ÷s ò t¦9§ ¢ ¤ öQ y  õ ø ! ¦  ð §A ö tQ ¢  òb øR ò ¦   òR ÷ õ ¢AP ø ò%  ð© ¤  T ¢ ð ¦RA õ ñ íÓ¢ ê í¤ ð ï ø¤  × õr P y øf ÷¯ ð ø ÷ õ îE%  ¤ ð 0¦£ ¢ VF õ¡  (§ ¦  ÷ òy ì ð î£ ¢ ¨ V¯ ð)  í¢ êÙ í ð¤¯ ïø  B ¤ r a a 4 0 ( ¢¡ ïS  ÷õ A ¢b ø Õò 7 ð  ¤ u EÞ ø¨ ¢y ø ÷w} a ! ¦ ¢ ð ¦§ ÷ ðo ø£ x aU ÷ ò ñ õ h P % ¦ y ð 9V¢¨  ¨ ø  ¤ õ ï9¡  íF¤ ðg ï d ô T E F ò %  ¯ ðP øÙ ò  3  í ¢ êg í ¤ ð¯ ï ø§ ¦ ÷ ò B R   íc 4 %  ¢ ð 0¦£ ¢ VF õc   ¢ ð ¦ 0  ¢Y ó ô" ó ò@ ð¤ ð ï g   E y ù õ½  ¢ õ ¦R¤ õ¯ ï ø$ ð ¶ ñ @ ò ðt  r õ (¯ õ§  f ( %  § ¦ ©5Ô b ¼¿  ð î ¢£¨ V  ðo$ í  í ¢ ê7 í ¤ ð ï¶ ø f ÷ ðF ð u  øÈT ð y % ¦  ðA %  × ðu PS  P ÷ òA  øgT ð" y  õ øE ð ù¯ ò ¨%  ðAñ  « ¨ ù¤ ÷R õ f ì ÷¢ y ð V ð0 VA ¢ øÈî ¨ ¢A  ø%  ð   ð  õA ñ ø¤¤ ö y   ò0  ¢)½ ñ ¢A   ò  ÷¨ ¦ ð¢R ! ¦ È õ îRf ÷¶ ð  í ¤ êg í ¤ ð ï7 ø ù¤÷ R ¢ R ¦ È õr î ÷D ð  õ×« P  ó ô@ ó D ò%  ¢ ð t¦£ ¢ VF¯ õ¡   (  õ t7  ò T  %   ó  ô  ó i ë  ê Ù é  ð 0VA ¢%  ¢ ð ¦¯ õø øf ÷$ ð ñAy ñ õÈ7 î   õ×H P Í ø7 P  ò¡  H ¦ 0 ¡ ¢ g ï ôE! T È ø¤ ð ÷ ð ø ÷ ¨ ¤ ð¯ ï© ø ï¤ ù öy¯ õ§  ¯ ïF ø t7  òR÷ ¦ ¤ % ð§ ¦  ÷ ð øxk ð 0EA   ò0  ¢)½ ñA ¢  T ð} y  E ò¢¤ ñQ B  ê  ó  f ¥    ¤ 4 ¦R¤ õ¯ ï ø ðA$ ñ y ÷ ½ù¢A 2) ¢  ñ¯ ðg ø ð 0¡ ¢  y A õ ñ¤ R ð¯ ïP ø" õ § ¦ ÷ò¤%  ¤ ðy ÷¤ õ¤ ïH ( ð9 ¡ ¢ yA õ ñ õX ø%   ð ù¯ ò ¨%  ðAñ ð 9 ó ÕòR ¢ ! ¦ $ ð  ñ  ðT£ ( Ed f % ¦  ð ø ÷ ðA ¢ "£   'È øf î ðR D " y  ¢¤ ð ïÌ ø § ¦ P ÷¶ ò ~ B i ë  ê 4 íÓ¢ ê¶ í ¤ ù ÷½¨ ¢ ø ½ø) ¢ ¤ ñ¡ y ¯ öc    × õ Pt   õo î õP ø õ¡  (½ ð§  g ( ñA ¢ "¤ ò!  ðR2 1¢ f î ðT' (c  P ø òR¯ ï ø ð @ ùR ò ö¤ ù ÷d ò ë ¤ ù ½÷0¢ ¤ ð£ ¦ i õ ¶ ê % ¦ ðR9 1 ¢¡@ ÷  ¤ ð ï ø ìy E  ù õ  ¤ õ£ ¦ R õ¯ ïÈ øi ð D ê ø ÷A ð ñ ® # ©£½ øf ÷$ ð ñAy ñ õÈ î ×õ P Í ø7 P  òR  W ¦ H   ô u a ¨ ÷P ò 0¥ ¢  % ÔP ¼7 ¿ «Èª ¨ f ÷¤ ð ÷T õ ( Ù õ   ðP  ùr òP ÷ òip ê 0(¡ ¢  ïS   ÷ õA ¢b ø Õò 7 ð ¤r¤ ð ï¯t ø  p ò  ï îR¯ ö  0 %  ð¢R ¦ A õ  ñ y ÷ ½õ¨ ¢b ø¢ ò ñ  × õP ¡½ ÷~ ¢ ¤ ð ï@ ø ¡   U T  ó  ô  ó ò¯ õF ø ò¢ ñ¤ ð ï¤ îÇ í r ¤  a P ÷V ò  ñ õ P y ÷ ½õA ¢e   ð£ V y ÷È õî d m q   £o d } m  | &r | & ò P6 õ ½ð§  g ( ñ¤ ò` x ð y ð V9¨ ¢b ø òA  ø§  ö9 0 v ¢ P ÷ ò E£v y % ¦ ð ø  r õ§ ( (¡ ög  t } ¢ t  ¢¡g ï ô ( r ¥ p þ¤ ÿ   ' & 1 m  £ % $ @

 i X F B 4   36 U ¢  T  (  ¥  i  r   B  ¥G y ¢ ` T  6      ` §   V 0 ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D   C  ¤ t @ 1  U 0 iE2 F B 4    3 U¤1  T  (  ¥  i 1 r   B  ¥Gy   ` §   V 0 ¢ I 1 h ¢ R ¢ W 1 R  g w RE D  

w ¡  ý



ü    þ f ý ¥ ü9z

 a  | 

 ¡ C © ¥ p p¥& o Y 1 E u  BY  Ra8 Y  E # m G w b xE¥ G $ @j ! A V S 7 ¡ % Dv5 × t  C Ê ¥ È t o x Ë ¥  ¥ Ä j o ( a C %  u ` 7 x 1XÝ ´ YE e  e8  g££ g i « Ø  è ÷ E  ¬¡ ª £ e íy ¤ £ eQ g y  S ¢  i ¥ e d u ¥ ª  f  Ý¥  Q  S  0 eã 10  } a$!¥$ @" PY  S D %uè | ¥ G 8 7 ¡q   ö d ` D ¥ B j 7 RR aC a @És ¼     Ü Bå × YuY8 B$  ! %(E %  BC  uY( B % P ( y B A % 9Y( G y ' @Y D  ! £ @r é  a(  %Yt D A @ õ 9 C B  @$  Pxr 7 $ 9¥ ! £ @¡ é y B × w  ¥ 9 E @   qw  Yr 2  C © " ©¨  C t o C p  p  o $  !Yx  1YI  I   mI  YC  &  x¡  C  5 ¿  ` ¿ Y¥ Â t Á x Â ¡    YI ó t  I  ¥ ò t ¾ C  ¥ ñ C¡ ¿ I   ò t ¾ I  ¡ ñ yC  t Á C Â CI Á yx Â À t  C  ¥v  mI ò ¥¥ Á ÀR¦  I  C    I  v¦  ¥  I  y  Î  C   %E   # 788  C 7 s  (  aR( a $ % ! C u $ @ !cì b  B )$!¥ô @ F  Q Y %  B 8YH B T6 ¨ (  a(¥ % ¥ u $ 7 aRa(A % r 9 Ò q E  6 q ¥ ! £ @U é E u BY  t D ( @ 'Y¦ B ô g w i f  ~   S ! %8¥( u  %5  r  mê i DE¥ B ¹ 7 B(E % ¥ B I @ y ) ×¥H   q F 1 ( B %YC B & @ ¥ x f @ ¥ d H  q¥  ¥ b Yr 2 x  S p " ©¨  t C © C p ¥ p ow( t 7w&  1YI  I   c  I  YI  `xY  ¥  & ¿ Q  & ¿ ¡   Â t Á  Â ¡  ¡  y ó t  I   ò t ¾ I  ¥ ñ t  C  ¥  v3  t ¿ I Á ¥  ¡ ¾ C  CI Á ¥ ð C  Ã  ` 3  xÜ  ¦C  I    I  vm  C  I  y  C   %E   # 788  C 7 s  (aR( a $ %¥ ! ¥ u $ @m ! ï b  Bî  $ ) ! µ @   %EB Q  EH B T¨ (( a C %  u $ 7 aR( a A % 9Ò q Yí q ¥ ! £ @ì é uY B Yt D ( @ 'Y¦ B gëw i f  ~   S ! %8¥( u  %5  r  mê i DE¥ B ¹ 7 B(E % ¥ B I @ y ) ×¥H   q F 1 ( B %YC B & @ ¥ x f @ ¥ d H  q¥  ¥ b Yr 2 x  ¨  C t  ¥  S  c © 1¡8 7 Y$ B¥ ! £ @" é ¥   7 E v y 1 Ü t P H v Q !$ % Pv¥ a E @ Í ç ¥ k H i h  1 %Y8 C Dw  ¶¡8 D $ ! µ @  t a C ) y @ s @ è  VØÜ 45 ×   8g ³  µ  D8¥  $ @ ! 6 7 I Å e  y ¼ hr g x  ¨  ¡ ¥ © ¥ p ¥ p É o Q !& % #U( 9 $ % PYQ x %¡q y 1 I Ä Èt0 Ë¡ © · È a(¥ % ¥ u ` 7  x E 1  e  ¨Y  ¬v  $ æ  w  å ä C g ` f ¥ e d u ¥ ª ` f  e  ÜY ª 0 eÕ ã  ¬I ª  ß á ¨ ¨ ¦ X Þ$¥  ¤t£ e ¥¢R$ 0 S © R  f  I â I á I à t à w ß $ ÞE  ¥ e d u  ª 0 fu © g I ÝÜ $ ª  E Û  Ú  ª  ¨¦ Ù ² ¢  & e fÖQ  ¥f ³  f¥ ª Ø f  Æ y Bµ × S  y P ( B A % 9Y( G y ' @Y· D iwf  Ö ~ $ @y P Br  R %¥ a E 7 ¥ # 0 7 PxE 7 D   ` 7 ¥ B 8 @ $x P 78(  %$Õ ! uE B$  PRQ ! I % t s C B @ v ¡E u  B 7c b  Ô Í ` D  B Ó 7 E u C B Y @  Í Y  r 2 S  Ê¨  t C © C p  p Ò o t(w 7 F  1Y¡  I  ` ¾ S  t Á SI Ã y ¿ `  x  ¡  C   t  C  ¥v  ct  d ¦  I  I    C  v ¦  C  I  I  j  C   % Y¥ # 78 ¥  ¥ 7 s  Q  %Y8 B  YH B Tr ¨ S   !A % 98$  !cb  Ñ ¡ p PR ! c 7 bÐr 7 ( 9 %E0  '¡q i f w  ~  ¡ C % Ï D R a ¥  E 7 Î Í j  Ì v X  A 4 x  È¨  ¡ ¥ © C p  p  o 0 $ ' ! 7wF  t 1 ÄCC   y   S Ë x Ê t © É   ( a C %  u ` 7 x 1  Q ¡ ! & % U # 9Ej G Xt 1 C È  A % Y 9 G8¥  s @ U¥ 1 t ¤  e  $ 5   e¥  t ¤ e ² y  S ¤ ¢R8g « `  e Ç & ¢  e A f  f ª¥e f s Æ (  Q a %8¥  C u  @C  $ @y P ¥ B  @ $ " Pw  m ¶ $ a Py( B A % E 9 G(y ' ¡ @  D w i 6   ~ aRa(( % Q ' ¥ ' 7 DEB¥w 7 $ % !¡$ GQ PE ' $ G !Rv Pf a $ @ P{S ¶ H @ ÅYS  Q ! Y % E D $ Gt P I q e  U ¼ ` D ¥ B 7XE B Br 7 9Y0 Dc ! y g     S  Ä¨  t C © C p p¥j o  !& % X # ( 9 %(Q ' 6 %  4 ¡ 1 E  xy   c  C  C  xI  E  C  C  E  C  Ãyt Á xy ¿ t  I  t Â t  ¥  C ¾ y  y Á   t C ¿ ÁyI Á I    & À y  (  ¥  y Ã t  I  ¥  y ¦  ¥ Â t Á   YC  I ¿ I À I ¿ I ¾ v ¦  I  C  I  v¦  ¥  I  y     C % E¥ # 78 ¥  7¥s   %YB8 Q Y  H B T¨ C B  @$  P 7(` ' " ½ (( ' & % t x q V  f ~  i¦j g ¼ 0  }$ a ! $ @ P¡  S D u %» | $ @¥ P I @  ) 7wº  ` D ¥ B º 7 $ )x ! 78 ¹ v Yr 2   ¸¨  ©¡¥ C p ¥ p E o 1  f q nYy 1 Q t %R$ aQ ! C % · 2  ¶H % ¡  y 1 Q t  % R( a µ % d  W¡C B @R aY  DYD  ¨  ¨ ¦ 0 ´ y ³ ° ²¥C ° r k i ®¯ $Y¥ e d  u¥ ª f$d © g C  &  £ e$  Q g $ fd ©u Q ª I © R f  ± ¬£ ª « ¨ ¨ § ¦ k¥H i h t Ee¥d  u ª 0 f ©u g I ¤ £ e£ gQ gI  S ¢  i  ¥ F B @R a$  !  7 ¡ v X  A 4 x   ¨  I ¡  I  SE  C  I  C  E  C  `  x  ¡I  t  I   y  I  C  C  I  ¡C    t  I  ¥  v   t   ¦  I  C  I  v¦  ¥  I  y    C   % Y¥ # 78 ¥  ¥ 7 s  Q E %  B E  H B T¨ t  C¥  S  ©Q !& % ¥ # $ @Q P H '  T  1 ` } C B  @$ " P Y¦ D  g DEC B ( @ Q ' ¡ %  q |p ¥   © 3 } iwf  u ~| %  C u ` 7 C G uYB¥F 7  i xYt G $ ) !w 7 A   % Y8 # RaY( B $ %t P m l gU 0 }$ a ! $ @ P ¡S D u %r | Q !  %¥  w 7 F  hg DEB¥7{( B Q %E % GHzxr ' y ¥ W $ u !& % $ #Q ! & % ¡ x ¦ q   m  j  vwu 1  C¥ @ 7cc b Y¦ 2 1y( t 0 7s ! m  H  r q S  o¨  t C © C p ¥ p ` o F 1 ¥ B  @$  P¡  S D % k j i h DEC B ( @ '(R % aE 1 H d E n 1w¥ 9 ` 7 ¥  E u  BA  $ 9" ! 5  5 1 0 D P 6 i aRQ a$ %m ! bwx l $ @ ! h r gC& f ed $ 0  (  v  R    &  s( %  7 cc  E D ¥ B 7UA a ¥ 9 78   8  3    dcS 1 PRx P 7    1 @('R ¡ aH  x  d¥& 1  )y ' @YE B  B¦  C b Y¥ 2 F 1 Q G H p I T e  C  S 1 ¡ ! C  r @ C  5  y q 1(E a ( G $ 'x ! 7w¥  X  4 1C%EB¥$ @ PvC a E u  Bt   sF  iU5  qrC 1 Y p B(F % U i h g & 1 ¥ ) ` 7 ¥ # f @ e d c  A b F 1 C B @RaR¡ a ` D Y B X G 9 W DEGHF ¡ V U  VU   T S 1 PRQ P I % 0 )E ' H G F 4 ¡  5 2  1 E D C B A @ ¥ 9 786  5 4 ¡  3 2 & 1 0 )( ' & % $ #" !        ©¨

T T  ð£ ( u E¶ ø ò¢ ñ ðR ï î¯£  7 P 7 õ  ø ÷¤ ð§ ¦  ÷T ð (¢ ðS ¦ ½ ÷ ¢He  ø ÷A ð ñ  È ¡ ö¢ î¢ õC ¦ ëi ê é¢¤ ù ÷¡ ¢  ÷ ù' ¢!  ð¢¥ ¦ ¯ õ© ø  ï î ò¯ õ §¡ ( 7 ( ¦ ò e ¦7  ò¤§ ¦  ÷ ò ø ò ¢ § ¦ ÷ ò¦ ¤ ÷õ A ¢ øb ò tA ¢  õ ù ðb øf ò@ î Þø¡  ö» òP    ò ïr î ö  ì ð¡  ö¯È øR î öA  ø  y øf ÷A ð ¤ ñÈ ö¢ î¢ õh ¦ 7 P  õ  ÷ ù' ¢!  ¢ ð ¦  P ª õ Eu½ø¢ 9 7  òR ö}  ðR¯ ï øA¤ ù ÷A ¢P ø òR½öb ò V ð  × õ P  E y ù õ½  ¢ õR ¦ ¤ õ ï¯ ø$ ð @ ñ ¯ ð ø¯È øT ð y)ò ¢ ¤ ¨ ¥  øf ÷$ ð R ñ öÈ¢ î õ¢v ¦ i ë  ê D é P © õ ÷y½ù¢A%  ð¢ ¦  ð ¡ ö ø¢×öP ¯ ñ ×õR P ½ ÷ ¢ ¯ õ7 ø %  ð¡  (9¢ R î ÷A ¢ ¡ ( ÷y½ ùA ¢%  ð¤£ ¦  P õ9 ÷ õ ¢AP ø ò¡  " ö ñ¯  × õ P ¤ ð ïø ¢ f õ¯ ø ¯ ð¤ ø ö¤9y¨ ¢A  ø ÷yÈ õd î 09H ¢ ¨  ø ÷A ð ñ¤ öo î¤ õi ¦  ë  ê  é7 P õ ÷ õA  ¢¢ ø ö  õyV p ð ¤ ð ï øA¯ õ ø ÷ ¢ %  ðR ¢ ¦§¯ ö ø  %  ¤ ð¯ ï¯ ø¡  × öH P b ør ò¯ ï ø  ðt  r õ ( õ¯¡   ( Ì ð g ü  £ ý£   @  ÿ¯¨ ~ ¥ ü ý % T %  ¦ ðR9 1A ¢ øf ÷¢ ð 0¦g ¢ 0 E' §  öy½ õ ¢£% V ¯ ð¡   (  ÷f ð ðr y P ø õ¤7 ÷ ðy V òRg ï b ø òR ïE ø!  ½ ð¡  0 (` ¢r î ½÷¢¨¡  ( ÷ ùA  ¢%  ¢ ð) ¦ ¯ ï ø¯7   ò¤ ð¤ ÷p ö  E ò¢ ñ%  ðR ¢ § ¦  ö øH  ¯ ð  òg î  ð 0VA ¢ § ÷ ð øxE ðb øR ò ï¶ ø S ¦ P ÷ò ð¡   ¯ ö øÈR î öA  ø  øf ÷$ ð R ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õ ¦ i ë  ê é õ ø$ð¤ ù ÷R ò ïF î P õ !   ðS  P ö ò6 î R ð¯ ïø ÷¥ ¢  ø tR ¢ ` xÇ ð  E ò¢ñA§  ÷  ð øb ør ò¥ ( øbR ò ï ø u EÞ ø 0¢0¡ ¢ 9 yA ¢ ¨  T õ ( ð¤¯ ï$ ø !  ¯ ð øb òA  ø   ¡ ÷ õA ñ¢ ð ¦gR E ¦§ ö ø  ¯ ð f ò@ î ¤ ð¯ ïÏ ø  ñ õ  P ½ ð¡  ) (  ñ ò¢x ðg ðF V T õ7 y @ ò ð¤g ï ô T   ÷ õA ¢P ø òr î 91` ¢ îr ðA (    È õ¢ î õP ø õ¡  ( ð¯ R ïp ø õ¢ ø  ï îP øA ò w ñ  ð¯  õ` ¶ î ò¨  ø ÷¯ ð%   ð¡  ( ðY  ó ô ó %  ¤ ð@ ÷ ¤ ð ïø ¢ ¦ P § ÷¤ òf ìe   ð¯§   ö R§ ¦  ÷p ð ¤ ð ïø õ× P u E ø½A ¢  ò d î7  òR¯ ö tt ¢ h V  ð  õAg ñ %  ¤ ð 0¦¢£F V  õ ¡(  ó  ô V ó %  ð¤¶ ÷ ¤ ð ïø ¢ ì!   ð ùP ò¨ %  ðA© ñ  í ¢ êE í7 P g õ %  T ð£ ( EuF ø §   ö õ ¢¨7  b ò V 9  ò r   B  ¥ § F B 4    3 6 U ¢T  (  ¥ ¢ ÷w ¢ % ¦  ð 9¡ ¢ ö!  ¯ ð  ð7  7 ò e  ø ÷A ð  ñ ð ð  ¦  ÷ò X
f  ¤ ð ï øÈ¤ ð ï ¯  7 P õ ÷ õA ¢P ø ò%  ð¢0 ¦A ¢§  ÷yÈ õ7 î R ð ï¯¯ ø ¡×öh P ð¢§ ¦ ö` R î ÷¢ E ¢  ò ñV ÷ ù' ¢!  ¢ ð ¦  ó  ô  ó  ð ø ø ðr« y  ò õ¯Ó ø  ðF V A õ  ñ ¦ ò ¨  ø ÷ ð¯%   ð ¡( ð ÷ õA  ¢¢ ø ö  õyV D ð t¢¡¯ ïX ø ¤ ð ïÈ ø¤ ð ï S  7 P p õ  ÷ õA ¢P ø òRö 7b òV¶ ð  ÷X ò%   ð V ðFF  7 õ f

 C F¢X R  4 g1 Q X W  4 a w ¢ u I¢1 u 1 F H ¦ 0 x     3 6 U ¢  T  (  ¥S¤ I 6 5  4 g¢ I 1 I uGE D    C ¢ F X R  4  g Q1X W  4 wa¢ u ¢ I u11 F a H 0¦  v )    3 6 U ¢  T  (  ¥S¤ I 6 5  4 g¢ I 1 I uGE D   C¤ t ¡¨X ¥   1  s r i ¡  ` i ¢  t 12¢ ` T  6         `   §  0  5 1  `   §  0  6  1 `¦    d4 3   ¢  ¢ `   T6    ¦  (  1 d ¤ ` U¦ `   0 1 1 d  `  U `¦B  ¢ e   X ©    §   0  6 1 b¦T ) U  2  1 ¤  X © T   § ¢  0  16X ` o  ¤ ¥ 0 ) 2 d   ¢ y y    3 6 U ¢  T  (  S ¥ 1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D  

( d m ¥ ü  m  ¡ m%  m

§

T  § ¦  ÷ õA ¢ ¨%   ðV ñ  õ  P øÈ î òA o ø x`ð ó ô 9 ó ¤ ù ÷ ¢HF  õ9   × õ) P ð¤¯ ïÌ ø ÷Q ¢ ! ¦ ð¯P ø ò¨  ø§  ö0 9 ) ¢ ð7  ò ® #§ ® ® ÷y½   ! ð¤ ù ÷R ò ï" î y ðF V r õ y$ ò ¤ ðg ï ¶ ô T % ©   õ ¢A¨ %   ði V ½ ÷w ¢ 0 E y ð 9VA ¢ § ÷ ðo ø` xð ¦ ¯ % ð §D ö`  ð7  òU © e y øf ÷A ð  ñ ð ¤ ð` P ð)  9 ñ § ¦ P ÷Ï ò  ó¨ ð ù ò¯¨ %  A ð ñ¯ ð¤ ï@ ø b ør ò¯ ïø t  ¢  ó  ô 7 ó ð¤¯ ï ø  õd ø!   ð¤ ù ÷R ò ï7 î ð¯%  ¤ ð ïR ø7 P $ õ  ÷ õA ¢P ø òr î 91¢A ø§   ö¥ D ð¤g ï ô   3 ¤ U ¢T  ¥ R 0   ) § 0  ! T  % øf ÷$ ð f ñ ð½%  ð  ð¯ ï ø ÷½¢ ¦ ¦ P ÷ò ¦  ð¯¢ øR ö 9y¢¨A  ø¯b øò ¤ ð© ÷  õ u  øw7 P  õ y ÷ ½õ¨ ¢Þ ø¡ ¢ ¡ ¦ ¦òA¤ ð¯ ï ø ÷½I ¢ % ¦  ð¡  ö¯¤ ø7 (  ò" î ð¯   ò ø ÷ ð¯%   ð ¡( ð  ¤ 3 ¤ U ¢T  (  ¥ 7 E¤ ð ï ø ÷ õA ¢P ø òA ñ  × õ¡ P ½ ÷ ¢ ð¤¯ ïD ø ìt ¦ f ò¯ ð ø§   ÷w ¨ T  P " õ ¨ ø ÷A ð ñ  ½ ð%  Ú ð t¦9¡ ¢  ï¾ î  ø ÷ ð  ðf2R ¢ « ¦ ð¤¯ ïø y ñ¯ õ PY% ¦ y ðF V A õ  ñ ð  ÷f ðr ðC y y ð V R òï r   B  ¥ § F 4B  ¤ 3 ¤ U ¢T  (¥ ðR¯ e ø ÷ ðA ñ ð ð 1 ¦  ÷ò X ï øo¤ ì ¦X ÷ õ' ¢e y ð V ÷¨ T ð¡   ö ø îR öA  ø   ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öÈ¢ î¢ õ ¦¥7 P ¦ õ ÷õ A ¢¤ ø ö½    õ V%ðw øP ÷ òT î 12¡ ¢ y ÷ ù½A ¢  £ E } y ! ¦  ð tA ¢%  ¯ ð øÈ î ò7  R ò ïE î!   ð ùR ò ö¤ ù ÷ ò  § (  ö @¨7  ¢ ò ñ P7k õ %  ð¡  ()P ñ¤ ò` x¢ ð ð×9P0¢  97   ò¯ ð  ¤ ù ÷£ ¢ 9 V  õ£ V ÷ ¢ %  ðR ¢ § ¦  ö ø¥  ¯ ð  f ò6 î ¯ ðP ø ò¢ î õV £   ¦ Ù ò ð£f ì %ð ¡  0 ( ¢`R î ÷A ¢ § (  ÷ ùA ¢%  ¢ ðg ¦ ¤ ù ½÷¨ ¢b ø Õò¡  k ö  ñ  × õ P ÷¯ ¨  T  ð¡  ¯ öP ø ò%  ¯ ð ½ø¢9 ø÷f¯ ð¨ ¡  È ö îÌ½÷U ¢ ¯ ð§  ¯ ö ør î¯ ö¨  ø  ø ÷A ð ¤ ñ öo î¤ õ© ¦ ëiêw é 7 P Ó õ  ÷ ù' ¢!  ¢ ð) ¦ ð¤¯ ïø  ×  õ Pg%ð  ¢ ùy½ õ ¢ õR ¦ ¤ õ¯ ï ø ðAÙ ñ  P õ¢t ' ¢!  ¤ ð¯ ï øo ÷' E  S ¦ P ÷ ò  ÷ õA ¢P ø òR½ö  òbV ðP ÷ò ðb  ø ò  õTA ( È õ îR÷ ¢ 00H ¢ U!  ½ ð¡ ¢ § ¦ ¯ ö ø  ï îR¯ ö )P ø òR¯ ï6 ø  ðt  r õ (¯ õ¡  X ( Ì ð g
C¤( t 1 u I¢¢ u 1 F  H Q w y r1  B  S ¥ 1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D   C t(¢ ¤ u ¢ I u11 F  H 1 Q  wy X F B 4    3 6 U ¢  T  (  S ¥ 1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D  

ð¯ R ïø

× õP

! ¦ ¯ ð  ò

f î ð¢¦

 B  ¥ S F B 4   3¤ U 1  T  (  ¥ f ¨ ø ÷A ð  ñ ð  ð r1 ¦ P ÷ò 2 ¨  ø ÷ ð øyy ÷È õî R ð ï¯ø  ð7  ò ð 7 ð f C B 6 t   3¤ U 1  T  (  6 ¥   ¢    i  t  r   B  ¥  X F B 4  3 ¤ U ¢T    G ¥¢ y y b T ¦ ) T U 1 I ¢ h R¢¢ W 1 R ¢ g RGE D   C ( ¤ t ¡    7 ¤ I T 7 h  ¤ ` 1   §   0  i ¡    7  `   §  0

Towards a System to Improve Administrative Processes for Front-Line Academic Staff
Roger Tagg and Madan Kumar Narayana Murthy School of Computer & Information Science University of South Australia Mawson Lakes,5095, Australia Roger.Tagg@unisa.edu.au Madan.Murthy@unisa.edu.au

Abstract
Current economic pressures are causing severe problems for many enterprises in maintaining service standards with shrinking headcounts. Groupware, Workflow and Agent technologies have been widely advocated as a solution, but there are few reported success stories. The project described in this paper addresses the case of running large undergraduate courses. A preliminary vision of a possible integrated administrative support system is presented, and the future activities necessary to advance such a vision are outlined. Keywords Administrative Applications, Interface Design, Software Agents User

1 Introduction

guides, documents on the course website, documents for tutors, computer files for practicals (e.g. provided data and source programs). From the process viewpoint, teams ­ especially where staff turnover is high - need more help in carrying out the processes than when the course is run by a single lecturer. The authors of this paper are a senior lecturer and a recent Masterate graduate in a school of computing and information science. It is therefore appropriate to consider how we can take some of our own medicine. Our school is involved in research into groupware, workflow and intelligent agents, which have been proposed as a means of improving the effectiveness of workers in teams and enterprises, for example [1]. We develop theoretical models, and talk about potential benefits, but have yet to apply these in practice. At the same time, university computer developments such as ERP systems for general student administration, together with web interfaces, have improved both general administration and student accessibility. But they have not helped improve the processes carried out by front-line academics. A recent project at the University of Queensland has developed a system, FlexEl [2], that uses a workflow engine to coordinate a self-paced course; however this does not address the wider aspects of team teaching administration support.

2 Case study: running undergraduate course

a

large
Our school currently runs 17 core undergraduate courses that the majority of students must take. Third year numbers at the main campus are over 200, with double this in the second year and triple in year one. Teaching is offered at 2 or 3 campuses in South

Severe financial constraints in recent years have forced many enterprises, including universities, to try to achieve more and more with fewer and fewer resources, including staff. Staff members have become progressively less able to cope with the increased workloads, while consumers have experienced a gradual deterioration in the quality of the actual service for which the enterprise exists (e.g. teaching and supervision, health care etc). A few years ago it was possible for a single academic to run a course with the help of the university's administration. Nowadays a team approach is necessary, including senior, junior, guest and contract lecturers, moderators and technical and administrative support staff. This team has to share both data and process knowledge. Regarding data, the student's record is the primary document. But there are also assignment mark sheets, spreadsheets, lecture notes, study
Proceedings of the 7th Australian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002

Australia, and there are sometimes external students as well. Courses following the same syllabus and taking equivalent assessments are offered at an increasing number of sites in South East Asia. Some courses additionally run evening streams. Our current project has been started with the dual intention of improving support for transient staff working in team teaching and providing a test bed for workflow and agent technologies. The authors have started to create models describing the current data, role and process structures. The organization model describes the reporting structure of the various roles involved in team teaching, including course coordinator, moderator, lecturers, tutors etc and also administrative staff. The data model describes the artifacts involved in team teaching, including lectures, tutorials, practicals, self-study modules, assignments, tests and the documents that relate to these artifacts. Data can be related to the whole course offering, or to individual students or project groups. The process models are divided into three main groups: running a course, running a degree program and running a project or thesis. In each process model there is a 4-level hierarchy: 1. run the course, program or thesis over its lifetime 2. run it in any one academic year 3. run one offering (i.e. with a given start date, at a given campus) 4. run one activity within an offering (e.g. assessment, on-campus module).

·

3 Preliminary design of a prototype system
As the main motivation for this project is to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of staff, the user interface has been an early part of the design. Figure 1 shows a large window that would be offered to the user on startup. This is assumed to occupy all except the outermost edges of the user's screen, where essential desktop icons could remain visible. The center of this workspace window would be available to whatever applications the user starts up, either explicitly through the Operating System or implicitly by clicking the buttons round the edge of the window. Some of these buttons support a "drop box" functionality; the actual semantics of dragging and dropping an object onto such a button will be different for each button. The buttons are arranged in groups, some of which are common to all users, but others of which only apply to those users who have responsibilities in specific courses and degree programs. A key concept in this system is context. This can be established by one of the following means:

the area of responsibility the user is currently working on (see the highlight on course 123456) · the function the user is currently carrying out (e.g. the topmost window) · explicitly by the user dragging and dropping the window he/she is working with into one of the drop boxes. The Workflow design tool allows the user to tailor the workflow, either for the current case or "from now on". A currently live work item can be dropped into either the New case or Action this case box. The user can review the progress of all cases within a workflow type, with an optional selection criterion (e.g. all students doing the BInfTech(SwEng) program). The Tasks and Appointments areas have drop boxes where e-mails and other documents can be dropped. An agent will scan the dropped document and deduce any tasks or appointments, not just for the current user, but for other members of the teaching team. The main E-mail drop box is an intelligent outbox agent. The agent should be able to format the e-mail for the mailer software being used, and to deduce the email address if possible. Other general buttons include Upload and Download for a mobile computing device; General trash (an intelligent archive) and General filing. This is an intelligent drop box that works out where the document should be filed, either from context (e.g. text within the document itself, current live task) or by prompting the user. The University student records system drop box is an intelligent agent that sends valid transactions to this server system. One common use would be to drop the course marks into it at the end of each teaching period. Students would be matched by keys. Data columns could be matched by name, or the columns highlighted in the source spreadsheet. In the bottom left corner My avatar/avataress allows for possible future use of generated voice prompts and responses. The remaining groups each represent an area of this user's main responsibility, such as a course. The range of buttons might vary, but for most courses there would be buttons for Teaching team, Planning and Teaching resources; and drop boxes for the Course website, Course filing, Classes and Groups and Course marks. The Course website drop box would work out a suitable URL (Universal Resource Locator) for a page where the dropped document would be stored, ensure that valid links were built to this URL, and arrange file transfer to the live web server. Also, a planned course offering could be dropped in the Course website drop box to invoke creation of a new subdirectory for the new offering.

Figure 1: Preliminary Design Layout for the User Interface for a Team Teaching Support System.

4 A planned software architecture
Figure 2 shows the client and server components, together with various other systems with which the user works (either by choice or by decree). Some specific technologies planned for the system are discussed below.

The Course filing drop box would behave similarly to the general filing one, but would attempt to store documents in their correct place within the folder structure being maintained for the course. Classes and Groups is used to maintain student allocation to tutorials, practicals and project groups. If the University student records system supports class level enrolment, initial allocation can be set up by drag and drop. Formation of project groups - and entering of subsequent changes - can be assisted by dropping student details from Individual students The Course marks drop box supports actions relating to the spreadsheets that contain the history and marks of each student on each offering of the course. The main actions would be as follows: · Drag and drop the University student records system onto Course marks to download student enrolments, both initially and to refresh the class list · Generate marking spreadsheets (or other forms) for the markers of assessments, and send these out as attachments to emails · Drop in the markers' completed spreadsheets when they are emailed back · Finally, drop the Course marks drop box itself onto the University student records system at the end of the semester to register the final grades.

Figure 2: A planned software architecture

teaching approach is still being implemented, these processes are not settled. We will next be seeking feedback from our colleagues on the correctness of our models and usage scenarios. We have also started building a simple system to record receipt of assignments, based on the use of bar code readers to scan assignment cover pages that contain the student or project group's identity, as well as the course and assignment number, in a bar code font. This system is due to operate live from the beginning of the year 2003. We are about to start an evaluation of the Chameleon flexible workflow engine from DSTC (Distributed Systems Technology Centre, based in Brisbane, Queensland) [3]. Chameleon has been developed from the workflow engine that was developed for FlexEl [2]. The corresponding modelling tool for Chameleon is FlowMake. We are already using the Adonis [4] business process management tool to chart some of our processes, and are building a translator from Adonis to FlowMake. In 2003. we have scheduled a project to investigate the use of software agents to support our proposed system. At this stage we will carry out a full literature search and evaluate what existing agents we can utilize. We will then prototype parts of the proposed system and seek further feedback. In conclusion, groupware, workflow and intelligent agents are important research areas in document management and computer science. But theory has got a long way ahead of practice. This project aims to utilize these technologies in a pragmatic way on our own working environment. It is significant that our Vice Chancellor has recently nominated efficiency and workloads as two of the most important issues to be tackled in 2003!

References
[1] Chaffey, D., Groupware, Workflow and Internets, Digital Press, 1998 [2] Distributed Systems Technology Centre, Annual Report, 2000. Available from http://www.dstc.edu.au/Publications/Annual_Re port/AR00.pdf [3] Distributed Systems Technology Centre, Praxis Project Website, http://www.dstc.edu.au/praxis/ [4] BOC Ltd. Website. eu.com/english/index.shtml http://www.boc-

We plan to make use of a collection of agents (or components) of various degrees of intelligence. Some will capture and utilize the knowledge of what the users do frequently, and will fit in with their preferred formats and ways of working. Others will service the drop boxes and buttons. In some cases these agents will provide intelligent front-ends for typical groupware functions such as task lists and calendars, which may reside in a package such as Microsoft Exchange or Lotus Notes. We have christened the aggregation of all our client-side agents as the "virtual private secretary". On the server side we plan to include a workflow server and a shared process help system. With regard to the workflow component, totally predefined processes are neither practicable nor acceptable in this application. Therefore the total process support system has to be a mixture of services, ranging from ad hoc requests for process help, through workflow control applied at a user's request, to predefined workflow with ad hoc exceptions and routing changes. A flexible workflow software approach is therefore a requirement. We plan to adopt, where possible, techniques that reduce keyboard data entry by teaching team staff. Examples are bar coding, character recognition, telephone enrolment by students ­ and in the future, voice input. Wherever we can, we want to use data that already exists somewhere on the university's network. We have already mentioned the re-use of course mark spreadsheets instead of re-inputting marks into the student record system. Another opportunity arises when entering information about persons. Many people can be identified by data held in the staff or student records systems, and by such things as personal web page URLs. Because of the need to link the proposed system with other existing or planned IT systems, there will also be a need for intelligent agents to resolve unclear matching with data from other systems, databases and files. These agents would make use of database schemas, XML(Extensible Markup Language) DTDs (Data Type Definitions) and ontologies. It is envisaged that the proposed system will be made up of a number of autonomous agents, rather than a monolithic client or server. Components (and possibly third-party web services) will be capable of being plugged out and in when justified.

5 Current and conclusions

future

work,

and

We have started modelling the existing processes ­ most of which are not documented at all - and are building up a process inventory. As the team

Buying bestsellers online: A case study in Search & Searchability
Trystan Upstill Deparment of Computer Science Australian National University Canberra ACT 0200 Trystan.Upstill@cs.anu.edu.au Nick Craswell Enterprise Search Group CSIRO Mathematical and Information Sciences GPO Box 664, Canberra, ACT 2601 Nick.Craswell@csiro.au David Hawking Enterprise Search Group CSIRO Mathematical and Information Sciences GPO Box 664, Canberra, ACT 2601 David.Hawking@csiro.au 1 Introduction

Abstract
A website's design directly affects how well search engines can crawl, match and rank its pages. For this reason, searchability is an important concern in site design. We study the interaction between search engines and Web sites by means of a case study of online bookstores and general-purpose search engines. The task modelled is that of finding web pages from which a book, described by its title, may be purchased. We first compared the relative effectiveness of search engines in finding pages matching the criterion, regardless of bookstore. Then we compared the relative searchability of the bookstore websites by observing how many times each bookstore contributed useful answers to the search results. Large differences in the performance of both search engines and bookstores were observed. Two of the search engines performed better than their peers, and one bookstore was far more searchable than all others. To further explore these differences we tabulate the total number of pages from each bookshop which are included in the search engine indexes. We conclude with recommendations both to bookstores on how they may improve their Web presence, and to search engines on how they may improve their performance for product searches. Keywords Information Retrieval Additional Keywords Web search, evaluation, transactional search
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

The World-Wide Web is commonly used by consumers to research and purchase goods [7]. With this demand for goods and services online, product finding is becoming an increasingly important consideration for Web search engines. However, despite the prevalence of such tasks, the general problem of product, or transactional [11] search has not been thoroughly examined. To begin to understand the difficulties involved in processing transactional searches we have conducted a study of the most popular Web bookstores and search engines. Our study examines product finding both from a search engine and from a bookstore point of view. This is necessary because any difficulties involved in Web product search may well be due to a mismatch between search engines and product providers. Previous work has evaluated the service finding ability of TREC search systems [5] and Web search engines [6] on a set of apparently transactional queries extracted from natural language Web logs. In these studies the sole aim was to compare search engines on early precision; no information was available (or needed) about what resources were available to find and there was no opportunity to compare the searchability of online vendor sites. Searchability is concerned with crawlability, that is how easy it is to retrieve pages, and how well a site is matched and ranked by search engines. Here, we study both search effectiveness and searchability with respect to a particular type of commodity (books) which is frequently sold over the Web. We measure the relative effectiveness of a selection of search engines in finding pages from which a book, specified only by its title, may be purchased. We also compare the relative searchability of a selection of online bookstores. This

The query syntax submitted to each search engine is reported in the Appendix.

is performed through an examination of the proportion of best-seller books for which a "buy-here" page from a bookseller appears in search engine listings.

2.3

Bookstore set

2
The process we followed to gather and evaluate our data is outlined in this section. We began by identifying our book query set. Following this we identified a set of search engines for querying. We sent our queries to the search engines and retrieved and recorded the first 1000 results. We then used popular directory listings to determine which bookstores would be included in the study. Finally we determined the correct books for our queries (by ISBN) and created a listing of correct bookstore URLs at which they could be found. These steps are detailed below:

Method

2.1
The query set was derived from the titles of the New York Times best-sellers for September 2002 [14]. We found 206 unique book titles in 9 categories. The book/category breakdown is outlined in the Appendix. We sent the titles to search engines as phrases (i.e. inside `` or marked as phrases in advanced searches). Since the book titles on the best-seller lists were fully capitalized, we changed their case to combinations of lower and upper-case letters. All words, apart from join words (such as "the", "and" and "or"), begin with a capital.

Query set 2.4 Correct answers

The bookstore set was derived from the Google "Shopping > Publications > Books > General" [3] and Yahoo! "Business and Economy > Shopping and Services > Books > Booksellers" [13] directories. Bookstores were included if they sold the top bestseller in at least three of the nine categories. The books were found using internal search engines to search for both the title and the author of each book. The bookstores were only judged on the categories for which they stocked (or listed) the bestseller. The intuitive justification for this was that there may have been some specialised (e.g. fiction only) bookstores and we did not want to exclude them from our study. The full list of the 38 eligible bookstores and their salient properties is provided in Table 7 in the Appendix.

2.2

Search engine set

In our study correct answers must fulfill two criteria: the page must relate to the book whose title is given as the query, and the retrieved page must be transactional in nature. When identifying book identities we deemed correct answers to be either hardcover or paperback editions of the book1 . A list of the queries and the ISBNs of the books judged as correct answers is available [12]. We define a transactional page to be a bookstore page from where you can buy a book. Browse pages, search results or genre listings are not judged as correct results. For many bookstores the correct answers were observed to have the hardcover or paperback ISBN in the URL (in many cases there were many correct URLs which were all observed to contain the ISBN). To cut down on manual judging for these bookstores, we performed automatic judging based on the presence or absence of the ISBN in the URL. For other bookstores we located unique product identifiers for each book and checked URLs for their presence.

Table 1: Search Engines Properties. The column labelled "Abr." contains abbreviations used through the paper. "Used by" reports search services that use the search system. "Rank" reports the position in the Nielsen/NetRatings Search Engine Ratings for September 2002 [9]. S.Engine Abr. Used by [10] Rank AltaVista [1] AV AltaVista 8 Fast [2] FA AllTheWeb Google [4] GO Google 3 AOL 4 Netscape 9 Yahoo 1 MSN Search [8] MS MSN Search 2 Looksmart 10 (based on Inktomi) HotBot Overture 6

3

Results
We begin by outlining our findings from a book retailers' perspective - detailing which bookstore was the most searchable. We then report which search engine was best at finding books. Finally we examine the size of the index and link graph for each bookstore reported by each search engine.
1 Large print books and audio books were deemed to be incorrect answers.

Table 1 outlines the characteristics of the search engines examined in our study. Our studies span four popular Web search systems. These systems provide core search services for the 4 most popular search engines, and for 8 of the top 10 search services [9].

Table 2: Bookstore comparison. This table includes all bookstores which had at least one success at 1000 for any search engine. Powells is included in the table due to the high number of results matched in search listings. The S@1000 breakdown column gives an indication of which search engine returned what correct books from which bookstores in its top 1000. The "Hostname Results" column reports the number of pages found for each bookstore by all search engines. Bookstore Amazon Barnes and Noble Walmart BookSite ecampus AllDirect NetstoreUSA Sam Weller's Books Books-A-Million 1BookStreet Wordsworth.com TextbookX.com CodysBooks.com Arthurs Books Powells Bookstore S@1 0.124 0.028 0.010 0.000 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 S@5 0.325 0.096 0.030 0.004 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 S@10 0.402 0.140 0.045 0.005 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 S@100 0.492 0.225 0.070 0.013 0.005 0.002 0.001 0.001 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 S@1000 0.584 0.316 0.075 0.013 0.012 0.005 0.010 0.006 0.008 0.006 0.004 0.002 0.002 0.003 0.0 S@1000 breakdown (AV:FA:GO:MS) 104:83:162:132 0:87:170:3 2:0:0:60 0:0:0:11 0:7:0:3 0:4:0:0 0:8:0:0 0:5:0:0 0:4:0:3 0:5:0:0 1:0:1:1 0:2:0:0 0:2:0:0 0:1:0:0 0:0:0:0 Hostname Results 3903 3603 277 52 290 52 261 22 775 17 92 22 78 3 1031

3.1 3.2

Bookstore comparison

· The only search engine which returned results for many of the smaller bookstores was Fast.

Search engine comparison

We first measured the book finding success rates at several cutoffs. The success rate measure is indicated by S@n where n is the cutoff rank. S@10 measures how often at least one correct page is returned within the first 10 results, and S@1 corresponds to the probability that a right answer appears at rank 1 (cf. the "I'm feeling lucky" button on Google). We also evaluated S@5, S@100 and S@1000. Table 2 contains the results for this experiment. Our observations are that: · Of the 38 bookstores evaluated only 14 returned any correct answers within the top 1000 results by any of the search engines. · Only 4 bookstores ever made it into the top 10 in any search engine: Amazon, Barnes and Noble, Booksite and Walmart · Amazon was the most searchable bookstore in our evaluation, achieving the highest success rates. · Only Amazon had correct results returned by every search engine. · Barnes and Noble performed well on Google and Fast. · Walmart performed well on the MSN Search search engine. search engine AV FA GO MS @1 0.14 0.00 0.15 0.36

Table 3: Search Engine Success Rates. The best result at each cutoff is highlighted. Success Rates @5 @10 @100 0.39 0.45 0.50 0.02 0.05 0.18 0.56 0.67 0.83 0.57 0.65 0.72 @1000 0.52 0.52 0.89 0.73

Table 4: Search Engine Precision. Note that precision at 1 is equivalent to the success rate at 1. The precision at measures below 100 is less than 1/100 in all cases. The best result at each measure is highlighted. search engine AV FA GO MS @1 0.14 0.00 0.15 0.36 Precision @5 @10 0.08 0.05 0.00 0.01 0.20 0.15 0.13 0.08 @ 100 0.01 0.00 0.03 0.01 Our observations on the success rates and precision reported in Table 3 and Table 4 were:

· AltaVista's (AV) performance was inferior to that of both Google and MSN Search at all cutoffs. AltaVista demonstrated around half the precision of MSN Search. · Powells had large coverage (with three out of four search engines indexing over 40,000 pages) but never had any of their books returned in the top 1000 results for these search engines. · Fast (FA) trailed well behind all other search engines, but provided a large number of correct answers between the 100th and 1000th position (success rate jumps from 0.18 to 0.52). The precision for Fast was very low.

3.4

Search engine/bookstore coverage

link

· Google (GO) trailed MSN Search at S@1 but surpassed its performance from S@10 onwards. Google returned more correct answers in their top 5, 10 and 100 results than did MSN Search. · MSN Search (MS) produced the strongest results at S@1 and S@5, but did not improve as much as other search engines when cutoffs were extended.

Links are used by search engines when discovering pages to crawl and when ranking pages. Only two of the evaluated search engines supported domain name link counts: AltaVista and Fast. Domain name link counts gave us the number of links to an entire domain name rather than just links to a single page. Using this information we could determine the link popularity of an entire bookstore. Table 6 contains the results for this study. From these results we observed that: · Fast observed a large number of links to Amazon but did not cover Amazon as comprehensively as other search engines. · Powells bookstore had a large number of incoming links, but still performed poorly. · Fast discovered more links to diverse hosts than did AltaVista. This could be attributed to the fact that Fast performed a deeper crawl and encountered a larger number of internal links.

3.3
The transactional pages for some bookstores may not be returned because they have never been crawled by a search engine. Table 5 lists the number of pages from each bookstore reported to be contained within each search engines' index. From these results we observed that: · Amazon had a consistently large search engine coverage (around three million on three out of four search engines). Fast covered an order of magnitude less documents from Amazon than did the other search engines, but still more than it did for any other bookstore.

Search engine/bookstore URL coverage

4

Discussion

· The coverage of Barnes and Noble varied widely. While the MSN Search coverage of Barnes and Noble was small it appeared to contain product pages, with three correct answers retrieved. Only 500 Barnes and Noble pages were covered by AltaVista. Over a million pages were covered by Google. · A large number of Walmart pages were covered by MSN Search, whereas Fast and Google covered a relatively small number of pages.

The best book finding search engines were Google and MSN Search and the most successful bookstore was Amazon. MSN Search provides the most correct answers at position 1. However, Google provides more correct answers in the top 5; potentially giving users more book buying options. The following sections discuss why we believe Google and MSN Search perform better than the other two search engines, and why Amazon performance is better than that of other bookstores. While we believe the concepts from this experiment are relevant to general Web product searches, it is important to note that these experiments are not necessarily reproducible. The algorithms and indexes used in the evaluated search engines and bookstores are not known and may well change over time.

· Fast did not have very large coverage of any one bookstore (maximum was 360,000). They tended to have a larger breadth of results, with larger crawls of lesser known bookstores. · AltaVista had large coverage only of Amazon, Walmart and Powells. We could not expect to find book results in their small (sub 1000 page) crawls of other bookstores.

4.1

Search engines
In order to maximize the book finding ability of a Web search engine it seems that the crawler must perform deep crawls (i.e. crawl long URLs) of at least one bookstore. This is because all the examined bookstores bury product pages deep within their URL directory tree (generally as leaf nodes).

Table 5: Search Engines URL Coverage. Note that the totals in the right hand side column may contain duplicate URLs. (this occurs when the same URL is found by different search engines.) Also the totals include figures for unlisted bookstores. Bookstore amazon.com barnesandnoble.com walmart.com netstoreusa.com powells.com textbookx.com alldirect.com ecampus.com planetgold.com booksamillion.com cornwalldiscountbooks.com wordsworth.com booksite.com codysbooks.com arthursbooks.com samwellers.com total AV 3,675,723 521 89,243 1,171 39,397 18 24 300 18 22 1 735 93 74 7 7 3,809,257 FA 358,376 192,792 1,076 315,002 111,977 23,157 26,278 7,763 8,361 5,860 5,423 228 169 1,308 1,221 278 1,087,000 GO 3,620,000 1,240,000 10,500 93,000 65,900 38,600 7 2,010 774 54 2 2,290 1,190 238 8 5 5,081,161 MS 2,838,819 2,822 916,162 42,052 6,204 150 27 240 18 865 1 1,271 290 57 384 8 3,810,094 TOTAL 10,492,918 1,436,135 1,016,981 451,225 223,478 61,925 26,336 10,313 9,171 6,801 5,427 4,524 1,742 1,677 1,620 298 13,787,512

Table 6: Search Engines Link Coverage. Note that the totals in the right hand side column may contain several links to the same URL. Bookstore amazon.com powells.com textbookx.com barnesandnoble.com walmart.com booksite.com booksamillion.com ecampus.com netstoreusa.com 1bookstreet.com wordsworth.com a1books.com codysbooks.com alldirect.com arthursbooks.com samwellers.com total AV 12,408,441 5,197,526 3,456,068 234,137 14,783 4,927 34,137 2,170 10,548 25,229 2,750 4,545 1,062 614 109 106 21,463,332 FA 25,955,858 316,989 28,453 784,088 267,008 113,729 79,351 102,047 91,867 50,064 21,694 16,270 9,512 6,508 1,700 208 28,160,545 TOTAL 38,364,299 5,514,515 3,484,521 1,018,225 281,791 118,656 113,488 104,217 102,415 75,293 24,444 20,815 10,574 7,122 1,809 314 49,623,877

While Fast appeared to index a much larger selection of bookstores, they appeared to not crawl as much of the Amazon bookstore as the other search engines. Considering the majority of correct hits for all search engines came from the Amazon bookstore this could have been one of the main reasons for the observed low effectiveness of Fast on this task. To improve crawler coverage of popular bookstores it is also necessary to crawl dynamic URLs with ? or cgi-bin, or even crawling many pages generated from a single script with different parameters. On the Powells, Walmart and Barnes and Noble bookstores, all product pages are created from a single script, with the book's ISBN as a parameter. As many slightly different URLs frequently contain exactly the same information it is also necessary to perform advanced equivalence (duplicate) detection. This is the case with product pages from the Amazon bookstore which includes referral identifiers in their URLs. Finally, MSN Search and AltaVista use referral information when directing traffic to bookstores but Google and Fast do not. While not wanting to encourage preferential treatment of search engine partnered bookstores, using a referral id to gain revenue when people purchase books found through your search engine is a potential source of income for a search engine.

4.2
We split up our examination of bookstore performance into two parts: Coverage and Matching/Ranking. Coverage discusses how bookstores may maximise their crawlability. Matching/Ranking discusses reason why some bookstores' books may be returned in preference to others. 4.2.1 Coverage

Bookstores

Converting links into crawled product pages is an important consideration. Many bookstores that have a high link count are unable to achieve wide URL coverage. This may be due to bookstore sites appearing to search engines as being dynamically generated. When crawling a dynamic site a crawler may be confused by the site structure. This could be caused by dynamic information in the URL (such as question marks), or by the generation of a series of pages by a single script. In many of these cases a crawler will either simply ignore the link, or be unable to retrieve any meaningful information from it. This appears to occur on Powells, which has a large number of incoming links but less indexed pages than other well linked bookstores. The use of a dynamic-to-static web site convertor may go some way to addressing these coverage problems [15]. The site which managed to best convert incoming links to crawled pages was NetstoreUSA. In contrast to all other evaluated bookstores, NetstoreUSA had more pages indexed by the search engines than they had links. Upon further examination we found that NetstoreUSA have static-looking URLs, with a simple hierarchy of shtml pages. To encourage a deep crawl that will cover all product pages it is necessary for bookstores to ensure they have both internal and external links directly to their product pages. To encourage user linking it is important to use meaningful, sensible and consistent URLs for products. While one can envisage a Web developer linking to a URL which has the form foo.com/ISBN/ it may be less likely that they link directly to foo.com/prod/ prod.asp?prod=9283&source=09834. Further deep linking may be encouraged through the use of incentive or partnership programs. If such a program is in place it is important to ensure partners are able to point directly to products and that all partners point to the same consistent URL for each product. 4.2.2 Matching/ranking performance

When consulting Tables 5 and 6 we observed that the top three bookstores by URL coverage were also the top three bookstores by success rate. Having your bookstore featured extensively in search engine indexes appears to be essential for success. Amazon achieves high coverage in the indexes of all evaluated search engines. It is important for a bookstore to have deep crawls indexed in as many search engines as possible. We found three potential reasons why bookstores were not crawled deeply. 1. The bookstores did not effectively convert incoming links into crawled pages. 2. The bookstores did not have sufficient external deep links directly to product pages. 3. The product pages were too deep in the bookstores site hierarchy.

All of the evaluated search engines use some form of link and page content information when matching and ranking pages. It is important, from a bookstore perspective, that a search engine return relevant product pages in response to a query. However, many of the observed search results were browse and search pages. The Powells bookstore is a case in point. Despite having many links, reasonable coverage in search engine indexes and having results matched frequently, Powells transactional pages were never returned. This may indicate poor page content, site organisation and/or a lack of deep linking directly to products (as their referral program appears to be processed through their front page).

A potential method to alleviate these problems is to use a "robots.txt" to direct crawlers to ignore search and browse pages and only index product pages. 4.2.3 We encountered several interesting phenomena we could not explain with certainty. Some search engines appear to favour certain bookstores over others. (e.g. Google and Fast have large indexes of Barnes and Noble while MSN Search and AltaVista have large indexes of Walmart.) The reasons for these preferences cannot be fully accounted for in this paper as we do not have access to the algorithms employed by the Web search engines. An example of this is the good performance of the Walmart bookstore in MSN Search. The results suggests that MSN Search has access to extra information for Walmart that is not available to the other search engines. Further, we rely on each search engine returning fairly accurate size estimates. We assume that the figures reported are at the very least indicative of the relative coverage. External factors and limitations book with how well it is retrieved by the search engines. One would expect newer books to be less effectively retrieved, as there would be little anchortext. In this way the current study may set a difficult task since many bestsellers may have only recently been published. However, approximately half the books are paperback versions for which hardcover versions, which have generally been released some time ago, are also considered relevant. Differences in searchability across book genres may also be of interest, we may expect computing books to be more effectively retrieved due to a larger amount of anchor-text.

5
Throughout our experiments we have observed large differences in the performance of bookstores and search engines. The search engines' precision at 10 varied from 0.00 to 0.20, while 24 of the evaluated bookstores did not appear in the top 1000 results for any of the evaluated search engines for any of the books. Our results have illustrated the importance of a combined approach to improving product search. While search engines should endeavour to discover more product pages it is equally important for bookstores to build a suitable site structure that allows search engines to perform deep, thorough crawls. To improve transactional search effectiveness the search engines should perform deep crawls of provider sites and crawl their dynamic pages (especially those that are linked to by other sites). To improve searchability, bookstores should use short non-changing URLs and encourage deep linking directly to their product pages.

Conclusions

5.1

Further work

In our experiments we only included results that were bookstore book purchase pages. An extension to our study would be to include other types of pages in search effectiveness measures, such as price comparison pages. Another extension would be to examine how searchability changes according to book properties. It would be interesting to correlate the age of a

References
[1] AltaVista. AltaVista search engine, 2002. www.av.com. [2] FAST Search and Transfer, ASA. Personal communication, 2002. www.alltheweb.com. [3] Google. Google directory > shopping publications > books > general, September 2002. directory.google.com/Top/ Shopping/Publications/Books/General. [15] YourAmigo. Youramigo spider linker, 2002. www.youramigo.com/downloads/documents/ SLWhite.pdf. [14] New York Times. Bestsellers. Web Site, September 2002. www.nytimes.com/2002/09/ 01/books/bestseller/.

6 Appendix 6.1 Book Query Breakdown
· (27) Children's · (15) Hardcover Advice · (11) Hardcover Business · (35) Hardcover Fiction · (29) Hardcover Non-Fiction · (15) Paperback Advice · (07) Paperback Business · (35) Paperback Fiction · (32) Paperback Non-Fiction · (206) Total

[4] Google. Google search engine, 2002. www. google.com. [5] David Hawking. Overview of the TREC-9 Web Track. In Proceedings of TREC-9, 2000. trec.nist.gov/pubs/trec9/. [6] David Hawking, Nick Craswell and Kathleen Griffiths. Which search engine is best at finding online services? In WWW10 Poster Proceedings, Hong Kong, 2001. www10.org/ cdrom/posters/1089.pdf. [7] John B. Horrigan and Lee Rainie. PEW Internet & American life project: Getting serious online, March 2002. www.pewinternet.org/reports/reports. asp?Report=55&Section=ReportLevel1&% Field=Level1ID&ID=241. [8] Inktomi. MSN search engine, 2002. search. msn.com.

Note: duplicates were removed from the query set. (e.g. Stupid White Men was in both the Hardcover Business and Hardcover Non-Fiction sections, and so was only considered in the Hardcover Business category.)

6.2 6.3

Bookstores Query Submission
­ General Queries: Book title surrounded by quotation (") marks. ­ URL Coverage: canonical domain name with "url:" parameter. ­ Link Coverage: canonical domain name with "link:" parameter. ­ Timeframe: General and Domain Restricted Queries submitted between 20/09/02 and 02/10/02 Link Coverage and URL Coverage experiments performed on the 09/10/02.

[9] Danny Sullivan. Nielsen//NetRatings search engine ratings. Web Site, September 2002. www.searchenginewatch.com/reports/ netratings.html. [10] Danny Sullivan. Who powers whom? search providers chart. Web Site, September 2002. www.searchenginewatch.com/ reports/alliances.html. [11] Bob Travis and Andrei Broder. Web search quality vs. informational relevance, www.infonortics.com/searchengines/ sh01/slides-01/travis.html 2001. [12] Trystan Upstill. Full bookstore/ISBN query/result list. Web Site. cs.anu. edu.au/~Trystan.Upstill/pubs/results/ bstore-rels-02.html. · AltaVista

Table 7 contains the list of evaluated bookstores.

· AllTheWeb (Fast) ­ General Queries: Book title with exact phrase box ticked. ­ URL Coverage: Advanced search restricting to domain using "domain" textbox with canonical domain name.

[13] Yahoo! Yahoo! business and economy > shopping and services > books > booksellers, September 2002. www.yahoo.com/Business_ and_Economy/Shopping_and_Services/ Books/Booksell%ers/.

Table 7: Bookstores included in our evaluation. This table reports whether the bookstore contained ISBNs in its internal URLs (URL), whether they used question marks in internal URLs (Dyn.), whether they were a derivitive of another site (Deriv.) and how many of the 9 book categories they matched (Cat.). A "*" next to the "Deriv." column indicates that the site was a booksense.com derivative, while a "+" indicates that the bookstore was a booksite.com derivative. A partial in the "Dyn" column indicates that the site was dynamic but didn't "look" dynamic (it didn't have a "?" with parameters following the URL). Note that this table includes all 38 evaluated bookstores. All other tables only consider Powells and the 14 bookstores that were returned by search engines at least once. Bookstore 1BookStreet A1Books AllDirect Amazon Americana Books Arthurs Books Barnes and Noble BookWorks BookSite Changing Hands ecampus NetstoreUSA Planet Gold TextbookX.com VStore Sam Weller's Books All Textbooks 4 Less The Book Shop Cornwall Discount Books A Lot of Books HearthFire Books Walmart Wordsworth.com Powells BiggerBooks.com That Bookstore in Blytheville StrandBooks.com St. Marks Bookshop RJ Julia Paulina Springs Book Company Books-A-Million CodysBooks.com The Concord Bookshop Dartmouth Bookshop GoodEnough Books MediaPlay.com Northshire Bookstore Core URL 1bookstreet.com a1books.com alldirect.com amazon.com americanabooks.com arthursbooks.com barnesandnoble.com bookworksaptos.com booksite.com changinghands.com ecampus.com netstoreusa.com planetgold.com textbookx.com vstore.com samwellers.com alltextbooks4less.com bookshopmorris.com cornwalldiscountbooks.com alotofbooks.com hearthfirebooks.com walmart.com wordsworth.com powells.com biggerbooks.com tbib.com strandbooks.com stmarksbookshop.com rjjulia.com paulinasprings.com booksamillion.com codysbooks.com concordbookshop.com dartbook.com goodenoughbooks.com mediaplay.com northshire.com Deriv. N N N N N N N Y* Y+ Y* N N N N N N N Y* N N Y* N N N N Y* N Y* N Y* N Y* Y* Y* Y* N N Dyn. Y Y Y Partial Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Partial Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y URL ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN ISBN Cat. 9 9 9 9 7 4 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 3 9 9 9 8 3 9 9 9 9 9 9 7 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 9 8

­ Link Coverage: Advanced search using Word Filter with "Must Include" in the preceeding drop down box, canonical domain name in middle text box and "in the link to URL" in the final drop down box. ­ Timeframe: General and Domain Restricted Queries submitted between 20/09/02 and 02/10/02 Link Coverage and URL Coverage experiments performed on the 09/10/02. · Google ­ General Queries: Book title surrounded by quotation (") marks. ­ URL Coverage: Search for the nonpresence of a non-existing word (adsljflkjlkjdflkjasdlfj0982739547asdhkas) and using canonical domain name with "host:" parameter. ­ Link Coverage: Not available. ­ Timeframe: General and Domain Restricted Queries submitted between 20/09/02 and 02/10/02 Link Coverage and URL Coverage experiments performed on the 09/10/02. · MSN Search (Inktomi) ­ General Queries: Advanced search with book title as an "exact phrase box". ­ URL Coverage: Advanced search using the domain name as the query, and restricting domain using "domain" textbox with canonical domain name. ­ Link Coverage: Not available. ­ Timeframe: General and Domain Restricted Queries submitted between 20/09/02 and 02/10/02 Link Coverage and URL Coverage experiments performed on the 09/10/02.

Vector Space Ranking: Can We Keep it Simple?
Vo Ngoc Anh Alistair Moffat Department of Computer Science and Software Engineering The University of Melbourne Victoria 3010, Australia vo,alistair @cs.mu.oz.au

Abstract: The vector-space model is used widely for document retrieval, based upon the TF-IDF rule for calculating similarity scores between a set of documents and a query. One of the drawbacks of this approach is the need to select a specific formulation for the similarity computation. Here we present an initial attempt to simplify the heuristic, by hiding the various detailed calculations, and evaluating the term importance qualitatively rather than quantitatively. A new technique, called local reordering is introduced. Local reordering still relies on the vector-space model, as it employs a scalar vector product for calculating similarity scores. But there is no longer a requirement for precise values of the document or query vectors to be determined. Initial experiments on two data sets shows that it is highly competitive in terms of retrieval effectiveness. As a useful side effect, the method allows extremely fast query processing. and the query as In this framework, the are the distinct terms of the collection, and is the projection of document or query in dimension . That is, is the "importance" of in , and can be calculated by any formulation obeying the TF-IDF requirement. A similarity score S between and calculated by the cosine measure is of the form: S (1) Keywords Information retrieval, text indexing, vectorspace ranking, similarity heuristic.

Given a collection of documents and a query , we wish to determine the documents in that are most relevant to , where "relevance" is judged by human assessors. Statistical methods for approximating human relevance use the TF-IDF rule for firstly calculating similarity scores between each document and the query and then choosing the documents with the highest similarity scores as the answers. The TF-IDF rule [Salton, 1989, Witten et al., 1999] asserts that, for each term in , the similarity score must vary as a positively correlated function of , and as a negatively correlated function of , where is the within-document frequency of in , and is the document frequency of term in the collection . Suppose that and are number of documents and number of distinct terms, respectively, in . The vector space model deploys the TF-IDF rule in the following way. Conceptually, a -dimensional vector space is constructed, with each dimension representing a term that appears in the collection. In the space, a document is represented as
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

where the three summations are over all terms. In mathematical terms, S represents the cosine of the angle between the vectors and . The greater the value of S , the smaller the angle between the vectors and , and the more "similar" they can be claimed to be. Note, however, that the calculation alone can be considered to meet the gross requirements of the TF-IDF rule, and the denominator in equation 1 represents a modification of the TF-IDF value that penalizes long documents or queries, and should be thought of as a component of the cosine rule, but not necessarily of the TF-IDF approach. Note also that is usually referred to as the document length, and that the corresponding query length is constant for a given query and can be ignored. Zobel and Moffat [1998] explored a range of similarity score variants. They showed that the number of possible variants is large, and that none of them seems to be an absolute winner when retrieval effectiveness is taken as the criteria. They do, however, suggest the use of the mechanism denoted BD-ACI-BCA, which performed well in their experiments. In this formulation, , and , where is the maximum value of in the collection, and the document length is a normalized function of [Singhal et al., 1996]. The work reported in this paper represents an attempt to escape the need to pick a particular formulation. We introduce a method called local reordering, which takes each document in the collection as an (almost) independent scope, and assesses the importance of each term appearing in it without reference to other documents.

9 % PQ  8%# I E4  @ 4  ) 8§# §  § ! 4  ) §(# S9 % I R P  T S % I )  U 9 %Q E4  @ P   &%# I R £ 4  ) (§#  § 4  ) §(#   F % F % HH ED   G 9 % )C12121B)0&  @ 9 % A)'(  @ 9 8%7 # £ 614&3  @  # £"§ )65 4 &3  % )21121)&0  % )('  %&$ c 2ba`4   S9 % I # £W V c 2b`a4  S % I #YX

1 Introduction

V w  v u  efd # t # £   9@%   uy  Brqpih 4a£   f9   qB% xighfed # 2PE4a4 T r qpig s g fed

¡



 

§



¢  © ¨§¥¦¤ £ ¢

 

¢

!

!

¢     §





2 Document length: Keeping it simple


By-Value: The first method is based on the value of the mapped elements. Initial experiments showed that the distribution of for a single document is similar to that of the impacts over the whole collection (see [Anh et al., 2001]). That is, for a certain , the number of high values is much smaller than the number of low values. Following the lead of [Anh and Moffat, 2002], we map the value to

where and are the maximum and minimum, respectively, of the values in document . Note that the use of ensures that none of the quantized values is higher than . Note also that the mapping is local, and ensures that surrogate weights of both and are generated on non-trivial documents.
 " 

d



In this section we examine the possibility of avoiding the document length factor in the cosine similarity computation. The key idea is to define term contribution locally within each document, instead of globally in whole document collection. Consider equation 1. The document length division is intended to penalize long documents, but it is a rather blunt instrument, and also creates a bias in favor of short documents. That phenomenon was noticed by a range of investigators, and there have been several attempts to ameliorate it. Most recently, Singhal et al. [1996] and Chowdhury et al. [2002] normalized the value of document lengths and were able to significantly improve retrieval effectiveness. Anh and Moffat [2002] obtained further improvement by normalizing the global set of term contributions. It is possible that further tweaking with the document length might lead to continued incremental gains in retrieval effectiveness. But it is also attractive to think about completely removing it as a factor. In their study Zobel and Moffat [1998] explored mechanisms using a unit document length, but without obtaining competitive effectiveness. Here we propose a partial removal. Instead of normalizing each term weight by the document length, the term of each document is re-evaluated contribution list

The other three mappings are based on a strategy called By-Rank, in which the fraction of the elements in that share each surrogate weight is determined in advance. It seems clear that surrogate weight should not be used with a greater frequency than surrogate weight . Taking to be the number of elements assigned a surrogate weight of (where is between and inclusive), three variants have been considered:
 % %

%

§  U % ) d e e   qBxig qBxig

$ # ¥ "

  %

 

!

 

 

   % qBxig qipg P

DH

 





§



d

d

§

 G

§ 4 &3  )21121A)&0  ¨)('§   # £     Vw   % £   §  § §   9   S S  4 §  )21211) )  )221! 211) ) 8# £ 

Our presentation begins in Section 2 with a examination of the use of document lengths in the cosine measure. That discussion leads to our principal hypothesis: that document length is used as a quantitative surrogate for a more direct requirement, that of qualitatively estimating the importance of each term that appears in a document to the "meaning" of that document. The idea is developed further in Section 3 where we report our initial attempts to avoid the detailed calculation involved in the cosine computation, and return to the simpler estimation implied by the TF-IDF rule. Section 4 then provides experiment results that show the simple approximation to be perfectly adequate in terms of retrieval effectiveness (hence the title of this paper). Implementation issues are discussed briefly in Section 5. Section 6 then finalizes our presentation with some conclusions and directions for future work. A brief word on notation is necessary. In this work we concentrate on individual documents rather than the whole collection , and it is useful to slightly abuse some of the usual notation. In particular, a document is supposed to have distinct terms , and is referred to as the term list of . In any formulation of , the value derived solely from a certain term and the document is called retrieval contribution, or . contribution of term in , and is denoted by Thus, in equation 1 we have . We also refer to as the retrieval contribution list for .

in the context of that document so that occurrences of a term may well be treated differently in short documents compared to long ones. For any , the re-evaluation is done locally in , without consulting any term contribution values in any other document. This re-evaluation is thus characterized as local. By way of contrast, the impact transformation scheme given by Anh and Moffat [2002] is also a re-evaluation, but global. Now consider again. The largest value of in a document might still be small compared to the largest value of in document . The intention of the local re-evaluation process is to adjust the values in so that, over the set of documents , the largest and smallest values of for each document are roughly the same. As in our previous work [Anh et al., 2001, Anh and Moffat, 2002], the contributions are also quantized, so that each surrogate weight is used as the retrieval contribution for a whole set of terms. In essence, in each is mapped to a document the largest component in pre-determined integer , and each other value is represented by an integral surrogate weight in the range to . Suitable values for are discussed shortly. Once it is accepted that it is the relative ordering of values that is important, rather than their actual numeric values, there is no need to persist with a formulation for document length. Instead, document, and mapped term weights are calculated as onto the set of surrogates. Requiring that each document use the full range of surrogate values guarantees a kind of length-based normalization process, but one in which there is no cross-talk between documents. Four mapping methods are considered here.

(2)

C'

©

  @ 

¨

  % £  

¢

©

S§

§

¨









0  §

©

©

  

©

§

 §

¨



©



d

©

¨

¨

§

§

¤ £ ¥ ¢

§

¤

¨

¡  

¨

¢

¨

¦



©

¨ 

¤ £ ¥ ¢

©

 ¡

(IDF, TF ): The term list is sorted in increasing order of , with ties on broken by using decreasing order on as a secondary key. In this arrangement, the IDF component is presumed to dominate the TF component; the nomenclature reflects the lexicographic sort ordering.

By-Rank, Arithmetic: The number of elements in a document corresponding to each surrogate weight, in decreasing order of weights, forms a arithmetic subsequence. In particular, = , where . By-Rank, Uniform: Within a document each surrogate weight corresponds to approximately the same number of elements.

¢

3 TF-IDF: Keeping it simple

(TF, IDF, stopped): One possible drawback of the (TF, IDF) proposal is that it emphasizes common words in English that are devoid of meaning, such as "the", "and", and "at". These words tend to have high values, and get mapped by the (TF , IDF) ordering onto the highest surrogate weights. To correct for this anomaly, the (TF, IDF, stopped) mechanism resets the value of a set of stop words to , to guarantee their positions at the tail of each sorted list. There is, however, a consequent issue as to how to decide whether a word should be stopped [Fox, 1992]. To keep it simple, here we classify words appearing in % or more of the documents (that is, ) as being stop words.

The number of different values is high in any nontrivial document collection, so in any of these three sorting rules there is only a small chance for two different terms in the same document have the same sort key value. A fourth method is also included in the experiments described shortly: (TF IDF): The value calculated by the BDACI-BCA similarity computation is used as the sort key, with the term list sorted into decreasing order.


Once the term list has been sorted, it is partitioned using one of the four mechanisms described in Section 2, except that the By-Value partitioning process can only be coupled with the (TF IDF) ordering. The resulting surrogate weights are used as the basis of a similarity computation.

4
©

Experiments
The aim of the first experiments is to ensure that the reported approaches result in acceptable retrieval effectiveness, and to choose appropriate parameters or methods. The dataset WSJ2 ­ a subset of Disk2 of the TREC

The approach described in the previous section eliminates one of the three parameters in the cosine measure, by removing the need to choose a document length normalization regime. Nevertheless, there are still two factors remaining. One way of trying to establish these would be to repeat a suite of experiments of the kind performed by Zobel and Moffat [1998]. Instead, we prefer to again just make a simplifying assumption, and revert to the underlying basis espoused in the TF-IDF rule. In its original form, TF-IDF is not a precise definition ­ it is a philosophy. It is our human desire for precision in computation that has led to overly precise formulations, with their various tuning factors. So, in keeping with the spirit of the "rank is more important than value" claim of the previous section, this section explores simple rules that order the term contributions in way that is consistent with the TF-IDF philosophy. Ideally, we would like to create a sorted list of terms corresponding to each document without doing any detailed computation. The surrogate weights of the terms in document are then computed for use in the query processing regime, without any further recourse to collection or document statistics. Again, we focus on one document at a time, and divide the process into two phases. The first sorting phase orders the term list of document in decreasing order of term contribution. In the second mapping phase, each value in the term list is converted to an integer in the range to . As the end of the process, these integer values serve as term contributions, and form the list . There are many ways of ordering the term contributions in the sorting phase. For example, any cosine formulation could be used to calculate a numeric sort key. But our overriding desire in this work is to "keep it simple", and we eschew formula-driven orderings in favor

 U %

  



¥ ¤ ¦

  



© 

w

¨ §



 f

d



For example, when By-Rank is combined with the of the distinct Uniform method, approximately terms in document are assigned to each of the surrogate ranks from to .

(TF, IDF): The IDF component is a statistic of the collection, rather than of a particular document. The (IDF, TF ) method, in that sense, does not reflect our "keep it simple" theme. From the point of view of a single document, the TF component should dominate. In this arrangement, the term list is sorted in decreasing order of , with ties broken by using increasing order on as a secondary key.



By-Rank, Geometric: The number of elements in a document corresponding to each surrogate weight, in decreasing order of the weights, forms a geometric subsequence. That is, = , with determined in similar way given in equation 2 with and replaced by 1 and respectively.

   





¢

 T

!

§

¢

! P DH DH

44 e DH DH d

 

 

 ¡

  £

 ¥

§

w !





!



# £ P# # 4w d !&s

¦





¦

§









d





d

¢



of more primitive methods. In particular, the following variants are explored in the experiments described in Section 4:

 

There are a number of interesting points that can be drawn from the results. First, except for the (IDF, TF ) term ordering regime, all of the methods using surrogate weights are capable of giving excellent retrieval performance and of outperforming the BD-ACI-BCA baseline by a compelling margin. Indeed, the good methods have surprisingly similar effectiveness curves when plotted as a function of , and all are relatively stable when is greater than about . Of the four good methods, (TF, IDF, stopped) has a slight edge. Second, it should be noted that even with the new methods give better effectiveness than the baseline. This outcome was completely unexpected, and means that just one bit can be used to code term importance, instead of the several bits required in conventional cosine implementations to store the within-document frequency value associated with each document pointer [Witten et al., 1999]. The two different surrogate weights in the binary case can be interpreted as "high relevance" and "some relevance" of the term to the document. Third, (IDF, TF ) performs poorly in all situations. This outcome is also somewhat surprising, since at face value it means that the IDF factor performs only a minor role in determining the contribution made by a term. One possible reason for the poor performance is that numerically the IDF takes on many more distinct values than does the TF , and so there is less opportunity for TF to be used in a tie-breaking role. On the other hand, if the primary sort key is given by TF , then the IDF is likely to be used relatively often to break ties. That is, in (TF, IDF) both of TF and IDF are likely to influence the ordering more often than they do in (IDF, TF). If this is the case, then there may be benefit to be gained by quantizing either or both of the TF and IDF components before applying the ordering step. An issue that may be puzzling the reader is that in the (TF, IDF) regime, almost certainly the highest surrogate weights are assigned to the most common words; yet this does not appear to impact retrieval effectiveness. The key to understanding this paradox is to note that if a word such as "the" is assigned the same surrogate weight of in every document in the collection, then appearance of "the" in a query (or non-appearance) has no net effect on the eventual ranking, since the similarity score for every document is adjusted in the same way. That is, the sheer ubiquity of common words ensures that they have only a small impact upon the document ranking. The third set of experiments takes the best method ­ ordering mechanism (TF, IDF, stopped), with Geometric partitioning, and ­ and compares it to other retrieval heuristics on a different document collection, against which a wide range of retrieval mechanisms have been applied. For this phase of the experimentation, collection wt10g is employed, as was used in TREC-9. The millions documents collection contains around with a total size of about GB. The documents were

¤

£

corpus [Harman, 1995], is employed here for that purpose. The collection WSJ2 is a homogeneous text collection, containing the text of the Wall Street Journal for the period 1990­1992. The collection has around documents totaling approximately MB. To measure queries were formed by taking the "tieffectiveness, tle" fields of TREC topics ­ . To control the complexity of the experimental process, a set of initial experiments was undertaken with the By-Rank process to determine the best of the three alternative partitioning regimes. As discussed in Section 2, the three mechanisms are Geometric, Arithmetic, and Uniform. They are similar in many ways to the methods discussed by Anh and Moffat [2002], and the preliminary experiments led to the expected results ­ Geometric outperforms Arithmetic, and Arithmetic outperforms the Uniform method. Those results will appear in a more detailed version of this paper. In the remainder of this presentation, whenever a mapping is used to convert a sorted list of objects into a set of integers, the Geometric method is employed. A second set of experiments was then undertaken using the various proposed methods to sort the term list of a document. The BD-ACI-BCA cosine mechanism, which includes document-length pivoting, was used as a baseline in these experiments, and is denoted in the results by "cosine, baseline". The same similarity formulation, but without document-length normalization, and thus without pivoting, was used as the basis of the values required by the By-Rank and By-Value surrogate assignment mechanisms. In the results in Figure 1 these two are denoted as "(TF IDF ), By-Rank" and "(TF IDF), By-Value" respectively. Note that the decision to continue only with the Geometric partitioning means that the value of (the number of distinct surrogate weights) is the only tunable parameter that remains; and that the retrieval achieved by the "baseline" mechanism is independent of . Figure 1 plots retrieval effectiveness as a function of for the five methods, and compares them to the BDACI-BCA baseline. Three different metrics for assessing retrieval effectiveness are shown. The most reliable metric is average precision [Buckley and Voorhees, 2000]. However, precision at documents retrieved and reciprocal rank are also included, as they are important for many people, especially in situations in which number of identified-as-relevant documents is unknown ­ when web searching, for example. To rank the documents with respect to a query, the same process was applied to each query as was applied to each document ­ namely, the terms in the query were ordered using the same rule as the terms in the documents; and then the ordered terms were mapped to surrogate weight values using the same mapping as was used for the documents. The inner-product of the two resulting integer vectors was then calculated, and used as a similarity score without any further adjustment.

£



¥

d £

1d d



¥

£





¥  ¥ ¥

)

© ¦



 





¥

¡¢¤

¥ ¦ ¥ ¤

d

© ¥

¥

d

 U %



¥©

d



0.25

0.20

Average precision
0.15

(TF, IDF, stopped) (TF, IDF) (TF x IDF), By-Rank (TF x IDF), By-Value (IDF, TF) cosine, baseline

0.10 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16

Number of different surrogate weights

(a) Average precision.
0.35 0.30 0.25 0.20 0.15 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16

Precision at 10

(TF, IDF, stopped) (TF, IDF) (TF x IDF), By-Rank (TF x IDF), By-Value (IDF, TF) cosine, baseline

Number of different surrogate weights

(b) Precision at 10.
0.60 0.55 0.50 0.45 0.40 0.35 0.30 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 (TF, IDF, stopped) (TF, IDF) (TF x IDF), By-Rank (TF x IDF), By-Value (IDF, TF) cosine, baseline

Reciprocal rank

Number of different surrogate weights

(c) Reciprocal rank.

Figure 1: Retrieval effectiveness as a function of the number of distinct surrogate weights used, using three different effectiveness metrics, and dataset WSJ2. The queries are taken from the title field of TREC topics ­ , and effectiveness values are averaged over the set of queries.
¥ ¦  ¥ ¤

evance feedback, query expansion, and phrase indexing. (However we also note that it is inappropriate to include TREC-9 results in Figure 2, as we manually edited the queries to correct spelling mistakes, whereas the TREC systems were permitted to only employ automatic correction techniques.)
¥ © 

5

Implementation and efficiency

crawled from the Internet and can be considered as heterogeneous. The collection is accompanied by ad-hoc queries (topics ­ ). The title fields of these topics are taken as queries. Hawking [2001] and Soboroff [2002] give information about the dataset wt10g. The results of the third experiment are summarized in Figure 2. The effectiveness of the new mechanism is compared with the baseline implementation of BD-ACIBCA, and with the performance reported by Anh and Moffat [2002] for their impact-transformation technique. The new method also performs well on this data set. Note that with the same data set, impact transformation was shown to perform well compared with other methods participating in TREC-9 [Anh and Moffat, 2002], including systems employing additional heuristics such as rel¥ ¦ ¥ ©

Local reordering is straightforward to implement, and represents a relatively minor variation from the impact sorted indexes we have described previously [Anh et al., 2001, Anh and Moffat, 2002]. Each index list contains blocks of sorted document numbers, and can be represented using the standard integer coding techniques [Witten et al., 1999]. Query processing is performed using a


d

© ¥

d

©

¡

0.4

Baseline Impact transformation Local reordering

Acknowledgement This work was supported by the Victorian Partnership for Advanced Computing and the Australian Research Council.

References
0.2

Retrieval effectiveness
0.0

Recp.Rank
V. N. Anh and A. Moffat. Impact transformation: Effective and efficient web retrieval. In M. Beaulieu, R. Baeza-Yates, S. H. Myaeng, and K. J¨ arvelin, editors, Proc. 25th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 3­10, Tampere, Finland, August 2002. ACM Press, New York.

Prec.10

Av.Prec

V. N. Anh, O. de Kretser, and A. Moffat. Vector-space ranking with effective early termination. In W. B. Croft, D. J. Harper, D. H. Kraft, and J. Zobel, editors, Proc. 24th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 35­42, New Orleans, LA, September 2001. ACM Press, New York.

Figure 2: Relative comparison of effectiveness performance of three approaches: the standard BD-ACI-BCA cosine measure (as a baseline), the impact transformation mechanism described by Anh and Moffat [2002], and the local reordering technique described in this paper, for the collection wt10g. The three metrics shown are average values calculated over queries taken from TREC topics ­ , with spelling mistakes manually corrected. For the local reordering approach, the number of different surrogate weights is , the sorting method is (TF, IDF, stopped), and the By-Rank partitioning method is Geometric.
¥

look-up table as a priority queue, and because all of the value manipulated are small integers, is fast. To date we have not explored any pruning heuristics, and the results presented in Section 4 are for full evaluation. An extended version of this paper will investigate pruning operations, and quantify the tradeoff they offer between execution time and retrieval effectiveness.

6 Conclusion

Local reordering has three distinct benefits. First, it is largely free of the tunable parameters and "knobs" that plague other similarity heuristics. Our intention throughout was to "keep it simple", and we have succeeded in that aim. Second, it achieves excellent retrieval effectiveness. In the experiments conducted to date, the local reordering matches the best systems that contributed to the TREC-9 experiments in 2001. Experiments to validate this claim in other test environments are currently being planned. Third, it allows an extremely efficient implementation. All query-time operations are on small integers, and query processing is rapid. There is little or no overhead cost in terms of index space. As well as further experiments with the current implementation, we plan to incorporate a number of other "simple" extensions, including the appropriate indexing of anchor text and any meta-data, and perhaps the use of a simple rules based upon term location and context to adjust the surrogate weights. With these changes we hope to create a simple, efficient, and effective, web searching tool.

d £
A. Chowdhury, M. C. McCabe, D. Grossman, and O. Frieder. Document normalization revisited. In M. Beaulieu, R. Baeza-Yates, S. H. Myaeng, and K. J¨ arvelin, editors, Proc. 25th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 381­382, Tampere, Finland, August 2002. ACM Press, New York. C. Fox. Lexical analysis and stoplists. In W.B. Frakes and R. BaezaYates, editors, Information Retrieval: Data Structures and Algorithms, chapter 7, pages 102­130. Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1992. D. K. Harman. Overview of the second text retrieval conference (TREC-2). Information Processing & Management, 31(3):271­289, May 1995. D. Hawking. Overview of the TREC-9 Web Track. In E. M. Voorhees and D. K. Harman, editors, The Ninth Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-9), pages 87­102, Gaithersburg, MD, November 2001. NIST Special Publication 500-249. G. Salton. Automatic Text Processing: The Transformation, Analysis, and Retrieval of Information by Computer. Addison-Wesley, Reading, Massachusetts, 1989. A. Singhal, G. Salton, M. Mitra, and C. Buckley. Document length normalization. Information Processing & Management, 32(5):619­ 633, 1996. I. Soboroff. Does WT10g look like the web? In M. Beaulieu, R. Baeza-Yates, S. H. Myaeng, and K. J¨ arvelin, editors, Proc. 25th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 423­424, Tampere, Finland, August 2002. ACM Press, New York. I. H. Witten, A. Moffat, and T. C. Bell. Managing Gigabytes: Compressing and Indexing Documents and Images. Morgan Kaufmann, San Francisco, second edition, 1999. J. Zobel and A. Moffat. Exploring the similarity space. ACM SIGIR Forum, 32(1):18­34, Spring 1998.



¥©

¥ ¦ ¥ ©

d

©

C. Buckley and E. M. Voorhees. Evaluating evaluation measure stability. In N. J. Belkin, P. Ingwersen, and M.-K. Leong, editors, Proc. 23rd Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pages 33­40, Athens, Greece, September 2000. ACM Press, New York.

¡

A Framework for Text Categorization
Ken Williams Web Engineering Group The University of Sydney Bldg J03, Sydney NSW 2006 kenw@ee.usyd.edu.au Rafael A. Calvo Web Engineering Group The University of Sydney Bldg J03, Sydney NSW 2006 rafa@ee.usyd.edu.au Abstract
In this paper we discuss the architecture of an object-oriented application framework (OOAF) for text categorization. We describe the system requirements and the software engineering strategies that form the basis of the design and implementation of the framework. We show how designing a highly reusable OOAF architecture facilitates the development of new applications. We also highlight the key text categorization features of the framework, as well as practical considerations for application developers. Keywords Document Management, Text Categorization, Application Frameworks leveraging industry's TC applications, and industry doesn't get the benefit of the latest developments and knowledge from the research community. It is our aim to create first-rate customizable tools for Text Categorization that apply equally well to the problems of industry and research. Our tools should also be accessible to the casual or small-time developer interested in TC. To accomplish this, we have implemented a framework for Text Categorization. Before discussing the details of the framework, we will briefly look at some general background on frameworks. Different software engineering architectures are used for different sets of requirements. The most common kinds of software architectures include: Applications Application developers focus on improving internal reusability and interfacing with users. Developer or user extensibility need not be considered­the application is considered complete as delivered. A popular example of a classification application is the Weka Machine Learning system [14]. Toolkits and libraries Library developers focus on generic reusability for multiple applications. Examples include the mathematical or networking libraries that exist for most programming languages. The "bow" library [7] is an example from TC. Developers who use a library do not have to learn its internal architecture, and the library does not dictate the structure of the application under development.[4] The internal implementation of the library is considered to be hidden from its users.

1
Automatic Text Categorization (TC) has been an active research area for over a decade and is increasingly being used in the development of commercial applications. These commercial applications usually belong to one of two system types: in-house systems implemented in order to solve a particular company's specific problems, and generic systems marketed to corporations as ready-made categorization solutions. The former tend to be ad-hoc solutions not suitable for use by others, and not made publicly available. The latter tend to be proprietary, closed-source, expensive solutions inaccessible to individuals, small companies, and researchers. One result of this situation is that many techniques and design strategies are underdeveloped as they are not well-known to research or application communities. Systems such as Weka [14] or Libbow [7] are widely used by the research community, but tend not to focus on integration into realworld applications. By contrast, the commercial systems are often useless for research because they are closed-source, generalize poorly to new problems, or cost more than most researchers can afford. Therefore, researchers do not get the benefit of
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

Introduction

Frameworks A framework is a set of classes that embodies an abstract design for solutions to a family of related problems [4, Ch. 2]. Framework designers focus on applicability to a certain set of problems, and on flexible best-practices embodied in software. An "inversion of control" puts the framework in charge at a high level inside the application, with custom application code playing a

subordinate role­therefore, interfaces between framework classes must be documented and stable. Common examples of frameworks include generic application frameworks like Apple's "Cocoa." Weka may also be considered a framework when it is used to implement new categorization algorithms through subclassing. Before deciding on one of these approaches it is important to define the main user audience for text categorization systems in order to determine requirements for a useful TC system. We see typical TC users in terms of the following roles: Application Developer A professional such as a web developer or engineer that needs to add automatic categorization features to a software application. The application developer may have no prior experience with Text Categorization. The end user may have varying degrees of control over the categorization process. Researcher A TC researcher interested in novel approaches to machine learning or document processing. This professional is often not interested in implementing a real world application, but wishes to improve existing TC algorithms and methodologies. A framework must be able to accommodate functionality in a number of essential areas, providing common behaviour while allowing users and developers to customize behaviour through configuration parameters and/or framework subclassing. We summarize the design issues in this framework as follows. Note that some of these issues are general framework design issues, while others are more specific to this particular domain. Framework reusability The main reason for building a framework rather than a single text categorization application is to increase reusability of design and implementation. Framework research literature provides guidelines on building application frameworks.[4] Modularity The components' internal implementations should be able to change without affecting the other components. Integration The framework should be able to interface easily with existing categorization solutions (e.g. Weka, libbow, various Neural Net libraries, and feature selection packages), uniting many solutions under a common interface. Rapid Application Development Prototyping new applications should be very quick, with a minimum of custom code in each case. Custom code should generally implement new behaviors rather than new structures within the framework. Rapid Research Cycle Researchers should be able to quickly investigate new questions, using the framework as a starting point. Model Flexibility The framework structure should be flexible enough to accommodate the needs of many different categorization algorithms that may operate on different representations of the underlying data. provides the best coverage for the perceived needs of the TC community. The framework described in this paper includes classes for managing documents, collections of documents, categorization algorithms, and so on. The core framework includes both concrete classes like "Na¨ ive Bayes Learner" which may be used without custom development, as well as abstract classes like "Boolean Learner" which require the user to implement certain behaviours before using them. Abstract classes provide a starting point and an interface for new development and reduce repeated work.

2

Design Requirements

Domain Expert Complex applications often require a domain expert who dictates project requirements and has expertise in the application domain (e.g. financial documents, knowledge management). The domain expert often makes high-level decisions about when TC could be effective in the given domain, and needs to exert fine control over the TC process. Of course, one person may play several of these roles simultaneously. A researcher will most often want to use a TC system as a framework, because they need to integrate custom code into the system at a low level. A researcher may also find it convenient to use a TC system as an application which provides a convenient user interface for running common kinds of experiments. By contrast, an application developer may want to use a TC system as a library or set of libraries, providing no custom code of his or her own. Given these requirements, we decided to implement our software as a framework rather than as an application or set of libraries. One reason for this is that a framework can easily be turned into an application by providing simple wrapper code, and it can be turned into a library by providing concrete implementation classes. However, libraries and applications can not typically be turned into frameworks very easily. Therefore, a framework

Categorizer

Experiment KnowledgeSet FeatureSelector Learner Collection

Computational Efficiency The data sets involved can be quite large, so it is important to have a design and implementation that is efficient in memory, CPU time, and other practical measures such as the time it takes to load a categorizer from disk and generate a hypothesis.
Document Category Hypothesis

Separability Pieces of the framework should be usable in isolation for users that only need a feature selection package, a vector categorizer, etc. The most separable pieces of the framework should in many cases be completely separated and available under separate distribution, and used as a software dependency in our framework.
FeatureVector

Figure 1: Simplified UML class diagram for the framework

With the above issues in mind, we have chosen to implement the framework using the Perl programming language. [13] A vast number of Perl modules are freely available for many different tasks, which extends the domain of applicability for the framework. Many of these modules are tools for processing text, and can be used by the framework. Perl is widely used, multi-platform and integrates well with other languages, so it enables fast prototyping. Perl is also natively object-oriented, with a very flexible object model.[2] In Perl, the basic unit of reusable code is called a module ; our framework is implemented as the AI::Categorizer module.

3

Functional Areas

may also subclass the Document class, overriding the parse() method for direct importing of data in its natively stored format. In the Collection class and its subclasses, the framework also supports the notion of a collection of stored documents, such as a directory of text files, a database of stored documents, or an XML file containing multiple documents. The most common storage formats can be a part of the core framework, while proprietary or unusual formats can be implemented through subclassing. Note that the document format and collection format are independent characteristics; a project may have a directory of text files, a directory of XML files, or a directory of PDF files, but these would all be handled by the Collection::Files class with the appropriate Document subclass. Likewise, a project may have a collection of XML documents stored in a single file, as a directory of files, or in a database, but these would all be parsed by the Document::XML class with the appropriate Collection subclass. Note that Document and its subclasses exist mainly for the purpose of importing data; after the data is read and parsed, the rest of the system will throw away most of the information in the Document object, keeping only its FeatureVector object and the list of Categories associated with the Document.

The framework supports several functional areas of Text Categorization. We describe them here together with the tradeoffs and design decisions that may be useful to other researchers developing TC systems. Figure 1 shows the architecture of the framework. Attributes and methods of each class have been removed for the sake of brevity. Each of the classes will be discussed in the context of their Text Categorization function. Categorizer is the top level class, which manages the data-related classes (KnowledgeSet, Collection, Document and Category), as well as the machine learning Learner classes and Hypothesis, and a class for reporting the results.

Structured documents

Data format
Since documents come in a wide variety of formats such as XML, plain text, or PDF, the framework should support the importing of knowledge in several formats and have a mechanism by which the user may extend these capabilities for a particular environment. The base class Document allows the user to specify the content as a string. The user

Each document may have several sections of content, such as "body", "subject", "signature", and so on. In AI::Categorizer, the user specifies the content by providing a hash of key-value pairs, where the key indicates the name of the section, and the value is a string containing the content data. The user may also specify "weights" to assign to the features found in each section. In the future, other treatments for the different sections of a document may be supported as we develop effective ways to use this structure.

Tokenizing of data Machine Learning algorithm
The default implementation tokenizes document data by extracting all non-whitespace byte sequences between word-character boundaries. This is usually sufficient in English, but nonEnglish language documents or documents with unusual content will certainly necessitate custom tokenization. To achieve this, the user may subclass the Document class and override its tokenize() method if a different algorithm is required. We may also add other tokenizing options to the default implementation, controlled by parameters, if other common tokenizing needs are found.

Linguistic stemming
The default implementation provides support for the Porter stemming algorithm, a standard algorithm for removing morphemes from English words to obtain their "stems," or root forms. By default no stemming is performed, but a stemming parameter can be set to porter to activate stemming. Alternatively, the user may override the stem words() method of the Document class for custom stemming. This may be extremely important in highly morphological languages or in certain application domains.

Choosing a machine learning algorithm is done by choosing a subclass of the Learner class. Several algorithms have already been implemented including Na¨ ive Bayes [6], Support Vector Machines [12] [3], Neural Networks [1] [15], k-Nearest Neighbors [15], and Decision Trees [9]. Any Learner class needs to implement the virtual methods create model() and get scores(), which supply the semantics behind the train() and categorize() methods, respectively. Since many Machine Learning algorithms are implemented as a series of binary decisions concerning individual category memberships, an abstract Learner::Boolean class is provided to help developers of new categorizers­in this case, one need only implement the smaller create boolean model() and get boolean score() methods. Note that the Learner class does dual duty as a learner and a categorizer. No class distinction is made in the framework between a Learner before and after it has been trained­they are objects of the same class. This allows for the possibility of on-line learning, in which a trained learner incrementally uses additional training examples to improve its current model.

Machine Learning parameters
Because each ML algorithm may have several implementation parameters to control behavior, each Learner subclass accepts different parameters. To facilitate the wide variety of parameters that different classes may require, we use the Class::Container module1 . This module allows each Learner subclass to declare the parameters it accepts, so that a Neural Network class can declare arguments for number of input, hidden, and output nodes, a k-Nearest Neighbor class can declare arguments for k and for thresholding strategies, and so on. These parameters are passed through the framework transparently using a variation on the "Factory Method" pattern. [5] In fact, the Learner and its subclasses are not the only pieces of the framework in which varying parameters control operations. Because this situation is common throughout the framework, Class::Container is employed consistently for all structural classes in the framework. This goes a long way toward reducing the number of classes necessary to implement varying behavior.

Feature selection
Feature selection is handled by the abstract FeatureSelector class and its concrete subclasses. These classes implement scan features() and select features() methods. The select features() method works on an entire KnowledgeSet in-memory at once. The scan features() method can scan a collection of documents for the best features without necessarily loading the entire collection into memory. Both methods return a FeatureVector object to the client (typically a KnowledgeSet), which saves the list of highestranking features to use when parsing future documents. The default implementation uses a simple Document-Frequency criterion for selecting features to use in model-building and categorization. This is very efficient, and has been shown in [16] to be competitive with more elaborate criteria in many common situations. We will add more criteria as the project develops.

Vector space modeling
The full range of TF/IDF weighting from [11] are supported, controlled by a tfidf weighting parameter. If the user wants to employ a different weighting scheme, the weigh features() method in the KnowledgeSet class may be overridden.

Hypothesis behavior
Certain applications (e.g. newswire categorizers) may need to find "all categories that apply" for each document, whereas other applications (e.g.
1 available at http://search.cpan.org/author/ KWILLIAMS/Class-Container-0.08/

automatic email routers) may only be interested in the "best N categories," where N is often 1. These scenarios are supported by the Hypothesis class, which provides a generic interface to the scoring decisions of the categorizers. Methods and like categories(), best category(), in category() provide application-level access to categorization decisions based on the scores assigned by the Learner class.

5

Evaluation

On-line training
Some machine learning algorithms can easily integrate new knowledge into the knowledge base without going through the potentially expensive process of re-training the categorizer from scratch. For instance, most kNN implementations can do this, whereas most Neural Network implementations cannot. For categorizers that support this, a virtual add knowledge() method in the Learner class is supplied. Currently no Learner subclasses in AI::Categorizer support on-line learning, but the architecture supports it when an implementation is needed.

4

Framework Customization

Although the focus of this paper is the framework discussion and design, we present here some basic evaluation of its performance. We have evaluated our framework by building classifiers in several applications. We have implemented Na¨ ive Bayes, Support Vector Machine, k-Nearest-Neighbor, and Decision Tree classifiers in the framework. We have trained classifiers using the standard Reuters ApteMod corpus and obtained similar results to the ones described in [15]. We have also trained and tested classifiers on other corpora in financial, educational, and discussion group domains. Due to space constraints and the proprietary nature of some of our other corpora, we will only describe results on the Reuters ApteMod corpus here, using the Na¨ ive Bayes algorithm. In training categorizers, we typically use two passes through the corpus when loading the data. The first pass scans the documents in order to perform feature selection, while the second pass actually loads the data into memory. This allows memory to be used more effectively than if we only made one pass over the data, because we avoid loading extraneous features. On the Reuters corpus, using Porter stemming [8] and a standard list of stopwords [10], the first pass over the 7769 training files may take roughly 59 CPU seconds and consume 11 MB of memory, while the second pass takes about 57 CPU seconds and consumes 32 MB. The memory figures reflect the total size of a running program, not just the size of the document data in memory.2 After the data is loaded, we pass it to a Learner object for training. Our Na¨ ive Bayes training process takes 8.1 CPU seconds and consumes 40 MB of memory. Categorizing the 3019 test documents takes about 95 CPU seconds and consumes 14 MB. With experimental settings similar to the ones described in [15] (we used Document Frequency feature selection, since we have not yet implemented 2 or Information Gain selection algorithms), we achieve recall, precision, and F1 scores of 0.724, 0.851, and 0.782 when micro-averaged, and 0.366, 0.497, and 0.396 when macro-averaged. We believe any discrepancies with [15] are due to differences in feature selection and/or document tokenizing, but we have not tested this belief thoroughly.

6

Integration and Further Work
The framework has been used in a number of applications including an extension to the SQL language of the PostgreSQL relational database. It has also
2 Tests were performed on a machine with a Pentium III 800Mhz chip, running Red Hat Linux release 7.0 and Perl 5.6.1. Results are not comparable across different architectures, but may be useful as a rough guide.

Like C++ and Java, Perl is natively objectoriented, but unlike them it does not have strict separation of compilation and execution stages. Rather, the compiler and interpreter work in tandem, trading back and forth to execute a Perl application, allowing runtime compilation of code. In addition, Perl's object model is fairly loosely bound (similar in this respect to Objective-C's model), permitting class names to be stored in variables and/or specified at runtime. Because of these properties, the choice of specific classes to be used in the framework can be made at runtime, controlled by parameters, facilitated by the Class::Container module. It allows several classes to cooperate as a framework without having to know about each others' class names, constructor parameters, and so on, and provides the glue to do strict early checking of parameter names and types, facilitating transparent factory patterns within the framework. For instance, to use the built-in SVM learner, one could either create an AI::Categorizer::SVM object directly, or one could specify the class name by providing it as a value for the learner class parameter. This behavior is implemented at the framework level, so different Document, Collection, FeatureVector, etc. classes can be pressed into service by the document class, collection class, and feature vector class parameters, respectively. This helps facilitate quick architectural changes, letting developers drop their own subclasses into the framework with relative ease.

efficiency. Because they are encapsulated in subclasses, these implementations may be traded at will, allowing experimentation with different implementations. In particular, we expect the Learner and FeatureSelector areas of the framework to grow as new algorithms are added and existing algorithms are informed by current research.

7
We have developed a new framework for Text Categorization which is publicly available and leverages existing work as much as possible. We have primary goals of providing usable TC software for application developers, researchers, and domain experts, as well as providing bridges between existing and new TC software. Our framework design endeavors to embody the key requirements which are common to most work in TC, and thus should improve reusability of design and implementation in applications that use text categorization. The analysis of its architecture may be useful to those embarked in building their own TC systems, so we have discussed the design decisions of the different functionalities supported by the framework. Periodic point-releases of AI::Categorizer are available at http://www.cpan.org/modules/byauthors/id/KWILLIAMS/ , and bleeding-edge development versions are available via CVS at http://www.sourceforge.net/projects/aicategorizer/ .

Conclusions

References
[1] Rafael A. Calvo. Classifying financial news with neural networks. In 6th Australasian Document Symposium, page 6, December 2001. [2] Damian Conway. Object Oriented Perl. Manning Publications Company, August 1999. [3] Corinna Cortes and Vladimir Vapnik. Support-vector networks. Machine Learning, Volume 20, Number 3, pages 273­297, 1995. [4] Mohamed Fayad and Douglas C. Schmidt (editors). Building Application Frameworks. John Wiley & Sons, 1999. [5] Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides. Design Patterns. AddisonWesley, 1995. [6] David D. Lewis. Naive (Bayes) at forty: The independence assumption in information retrieval. In Claire N´ edellec and C´ eline Rouveirol (editors), Proceedings of ECML-98, 10th European Conference on Machine Learning, number 1398, pages 4­15, Chemnitz, DE, 1998. Springer Verlag, Heidelberg, DE.

been used as distributed service for classification using an XML/RPC architecture, and integrated into multi-tier web applications and desktop applications. We know that much work has been done by previous developers and researchers in the area of Text Categorization. While we are in one sense retreading ground by implementing generic TC software, we see our work as a way to extend the reach of others' work, rather than as a replacement for it. To this end, we have tried to make the framework very inter-operable and provide interfaces to existing TC products. For instance, we have implemented a Learner subclass called Learner::Weka to provide an interface to any Weka classifier the user would like to use. In this way, AI::Categorizer benefits when progress is made in Weka, as well as the other way around. We hope to create interfaces to other existing products as well. If the AI::Categorizer project gains enough momentum that other people wish to contribute code to it, we will encourage this code to be as independent and generic as possible so that we may simply create an interface to it in our framework. For instance, this is how the SVM learner in our framework was created recently­our AI::Categorizer::SVM class is just a thin wrapper around a generic Algorithm::SVM module by another author we collaborated with, and this in turn is a wrapper around the C library libsvm. It is our hope that this strategy will extend the reach of both our framework and related existing and new TC software. In designing the AI::Categorizer framework architecture, we have focused on aspects of Text Categorization that tend to remain common from one task to the next, allowing for growth in aspects that tend to change. For instance, we have specified that document features are encapsulated in a FeatureVector object, but we have not specified that object's internal implementation. Likewise, we have specified that the Machine Learning TC algorithms are encapsulated by the Learner class, but the specific algorithms will tend to vary from task to task. In the first public versions of the framework, we have tended to implement the simplest versions of each of these classes, with more elaborate or optimized implementations deferred to later work. For instance, our FeatureVector class is currently implemented using Perl hashes, but other implementations (for instance, using C structs to implement sparse integer vectors) may be implemented in order to improve memory usage and/or speed. Other Learner subclasses may also be added, and the existing subclasses may be improved to provide more feature-rich implementations or improve

[7] Andrew Kachites McCallum. Bow: A toolkit for statistical language modeling, text retrieval, classification and clustering. http://www.cs.cmu.edu/ mccallum/bow, 1996. [8] M.F. Porter. An algorithm for suffix stripping. Program, Volume 14, Number 3, pages 130­ 137, 1980. [9] J. R. Quinlan and R. L. Rivest. Inferring decision trees using the minimum description length principle. Information and Computation, Volume 80, Number 3, pages 227­248, 1989. [10] Gerard Salton. Automatic Text Processing: The Transformation, Analysis, and Retrieval of Information by Computer. Addison-Wesley, Reading, Pennsylvania, 1989. [11] Gerard Salton and Christopher Buckley. Term-weighting approaches in automatic text retrieval. Information Processing and Management: an International Journal, Volume 24, Number 5, pages 513­523, 1988. [12] Bernhard Sch¨ olkopf, Christopher J.C. Burges and Alexander J. Smola (editors). Advances in Kernel Methods ­ Support Vector Learning. MIT Press, 1999. [13] Larry Wall, Tom Christiansen and Jon Orwant. Programming Perl. O'Reilly and Associates, 3 edition, 2000. [14] Ian H. Witten and Eibe Frank. Data Mining: Practical Machine Learning Tools and Techniques with Java Implementations, Chapter 8, pages 265­320. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, 1 edition, 1999. [15] Y. Yang and X. Liu. A re-examination of text categorization methods. In 22nd Annual International SIGIR, pages 42­49, Berkley, August 1999. [16] Yiming Yang and Jan O. Pedersen. A comparative study on feature selection in text categorization. In Douglas H. Fisher (editor), Proceedings of ICML-97, 14th International Conference on Machine Learning, pages 412­ 420, Nashville, US, 1997. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Francisco, US.

Improved use of Contextual Information in Cross-language Information Retrieval
Ying Zhang, Phil Vines School of Computer Science and Information Technology, RMIT University GPO Box 2476V, Melbourne Victoria 3001, Australia { yzhang, phil }@cs.rmit.edu.au Abstract
In this paper, we explore Dictionary based contextsensitive translation, a framework for query translation to reduce the translation ambiguity and improve the translation quality in English to Chinese cross-language information retrieval (CLIR). Our paper explores the effect of the context window size on translation effectiveness. We assume that the correct translations of the query key terms tend to co-occur together at a high frequency and incorrect translations do not. Our experimental results showed that when using a window size of 10, contextsensitive translation results in a dramatic improvement in retrieval performance, it brings about a 30% improvement compared to the results of previous Dictionary based approaches that used only immediately adjacent words for context. Keywords Information Retrieval Machine translation based approach, the Parallel corpus based approach and the Dictionary based approach. Regardless of the cross-language approach taken, the main hurdle to improved CLIR effectiveness is resolving ambiguity associated with translation. In our work, we aim to translate each English key term using both a dictionary lookup technique and the available context, into the most appropriate corresponding Chinese term. Rather than use only immediately adjacent words to determine the context, we experiment with a window size w of words around the key term. The rest of the paper is organised as follows: section two presents the related work; in section three, we discuss the formula and the selection algorithm used in our context-sensitive translation approach; section four describes the experiment setup; section five presents and summarizes the evaluation results and provides our discussions, and section six concludes the paper.

1 Introduction
With the enormous increase in recent years in the number of multilingual text databases available online, there has been a growing interest in the research done in the area of Cross-Language Information Retrieval (CLIR). This paper is concerned with one type of CLIR, namely, issuing a query in English and retrieving a Chinese document. In order to match a document and a query in two different languages, either the document or the query should be translated. By far the simplest approach is to convert queries to the document language and do the monolingual ranked retrieval. This approach is called query translation. Most research has concentrated on query translation [1, 4, 5, 6], as it is computationally less expensive than document translation, which requires a lot memory and processing capacity. Within the query translation framework, basic approaches to CLIR are: the
Proceedings of the 7th Australasian Document Computing Symposium, Sydney, Australia, December 16, 2002.

2 Related work
Translation ambiguity is a major problem in CLIR and arises from the fact that many words have multiple possible translations. Some researchers in the past have used approaches such as First-Match and Every-Match [7]. More recent work has concentrated on adjacent words to provide the context and thus help select the appropriate translation. Ballesteros and Croft [1] describe a technique that employs co-occurrence statistics obtained from the corpus being searched to disambiguate dictionary translation. They measure the importance of co-occurrence of the elements in a set by using the em metric - the percentage of the occurrences of term a and term b which are net cooccurrences (co-occurrences minus expected cooccurrences). Our work applies this technique to English to Chinese CLIR and extends this approach by using a larger window of contextual information.

3 Context-sensitive translation
Given a set of n original query terms {e1 , e 2 ,..., e n } , we obtain a set Ci of all possible translations for For more detailed descriptions, see [8].

Where n is the number of key terms ei in the English query, m is the number of Chinese translations cij in the Chinese translation set Ci .

each ei through a bilingual dictionary lookup and then try to select the best translation that co-occurs with all other sets of translations in the same context window at the highest frequency, from each Ci .

4 Experiments
We conducted the English to Chinese CLIR experiments in the Chinese collection of TREC 5 and TREC 6 [3]. There are 54 queries and 164,789 documents (170MB) of articles drawn from the People's Daily newspaper and the Xinhua newswire. In our experiments, the first 28 topics (CH01 to CH28) were processed as queries to retrieve the documents from the Chinese collection. The queries use all sections of the topic. In our experiments, we use a dictionary from the Linguist Data Consortium (LDC) - ldc2ec, which has 110,834 entries (http://www.morph.ldc.edu/ Projects/ Chinese). The Chinese stop list was manually selected from the statistical results we obtained from the Chinese document collection. The top 118 words with the highest collection frequency (CF) and relatively unimportant meanings are selected as stop-word and put into the Chinese stop list.

3.1

Mutual information

Mutual information (MI(x,y)) [2] is used to measure the correlation between all word pairs in the same context window in our application of query translation. In other words, the correct translation of the given query key term is not only determined by the immediately adjacent words but also the words that are in the same context window. Previous work has tended to look only at these immediately adjacent words. This is the major point of difference between our work and previous work [1] and has contributed significantly to our improved results. We extend the MI formula, which previously used to measure mutual information between immediately adjacent words, to measure the MI between a given word and every other word within a window size w. Nf w ( x, y ) MI (x, y ) = log 2 f ( x) f ( y ) Where f w (x, y ) is the frequency that term x and term y co-occur within a window size w, f ( x ) is the collection frequency of x, f ( y ) is the collection frequency of y, and N is the total number of words in the document collection. A window size w is the context of the given term that consists of w/2 words before and after the given term.

4.1

Monolingual IR experiment

3.2
There are n terms in the English query, for each original English query term ei (i  (1, n )) , we obtain a set Ci of all possible Chinese translations cij ( j  (1, m)) through a bilingual dictionary lookup: For each set Ci , do

Selection algorithm 4.2

We have carried out monolingual IR experiments using both character-based and word-based approaches. In word-based approach, we use the dictionary based method with greedy parsing, where a dictionary that contains 58,667 entries is employed. These experiments have shown that word-based approach is statistically better than character-based approach. The retrieval performance of the wordbased monolingual run is in the second column in Table 1. This provides a benchmark for our CLIR results.

CLIR experiment

For each translation cij in Ci , do For each set C k (k  (1, n ), k  i ) , do Compute the mutual information MI cij , C k = Maxc y C k MI (cij , c y ) ;

(

)

Calculate the score of the translation cij :
S cij =
 

n k =1,k i

MI c ij , C k

(

)

Select the cij with the highest S cij

We explored two methods for disambiguating dictionary based query translation, the First-Match method and the context-sensitive translation. To provide a baseline for CLIR results, we obtained a recall-precision average for the FirstMatch method. Only the first match translation per query term is retained instead of using all of the listed translations in lcd2ec when there is more than one translation for that term. When there is no exact matching for a single-word term, the term is skipped. The retrieval performance of the First-Match run is in the third column in Table 1. Our context-sensitive translation scheme works in three stages: pre-processing, dictionary based query translation and translation disambiguation. At the first stage, English stop words are removed from

significant improvement for window size greater than 10.
0.25 0.2354 0.2367 0.2 0.1646 0.15 0.1267 0.1 0.05 0

English topics. When an English word has a trailing "s", it is removed according to Porter's algorithm. Other steps of stemming are not done in order to avoid changes in meaning. The Chinese document collection is segmented into the words; and then Chinese stop words are removed from the Chinese document collection. The second stage does actual query translation based on ldc2ec dictionary look-up. For each Chinese translation, we applied a Chinese stop list filter. At the third stage, the MI ( x, y ) statistics was used to determine whether the Chinese translations from different sets generated by the translation process are "compatible". Avg. Precision

5 Results and Discussion
w=2 w=8 w=10 w=12

Figure 2: Comparison of the widow size effect on CLIR effectiveness (Avg. precision).

5.1

Factors affecting effectiveness

translation

Using the TREC data and queries described earlier, we have gathered in Table 1 a comparison of the recall precision values for the experimental results. Columns two through seven correspond respectively to the word-based monolingual information retrieval, the First-Match method, and our context-sensitive translation method using a window size of 2, 8, 10 and 12. It is seen that when using a window size of 10, our context-sensitive translation disambiguation method successfully brings effectiveness to over 62% of monolingual retrieval. This is a considerable improvement over previous work (using adjacent information, i.e. w = 2 ) which yielded 33.5% of monolingual retrieval effectiveness. More detailed results and discussion are presented in [8]. Figure 1 plots the precision-recall curves for a comparison of the retrieval performance of the six runs. It is seen that the context-sensitive translation approach significantly outperforms the First-Match method, however, the gap between monolingual and cross-language retrieval is still large.
0.8 Monolingual 0.7 First-Match Context-sensitive (w=2) Context-sensitive (w=8) 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 0 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1 Context-sensitive (w=10) Context-sensitive (w=12) 0.6

Precision

Recall Figure 1: Recall-precision average of queries 01-28 Figure 2 shows the effect of the context window size on translation effectiveness. As the window size is enlarged from 2 to 10, the average precision increases from 0.1267 to 0.2354. There is no

In this section, we examine several factors that may directly or indirectly have degraded the retrieval effectiveness of English to Chinese CLIR. First, the translation of certain English query key terms cannot be found in the English-Chinese dictionary (ldc2ec) we used in the experiment, such as place names, person names and some place terminologies. For example, Xinjiang ( name) and WTO ( terminology). Outof-vocabulary words not found are left as untranslated. This is one reason that our retrieval effectiveness is degraded. Second, for some English query key terms, there is no exact equivalent Chinese translation, although some approximate equivalents are provided in the ldc2ec. For example, we obtained Chinese translations "/ / /" for English term "digital", however, the corresponding Chinese ". Therefore, we failed to translation should be " select the best translation in this case. Third, since ldc2ec does not support phrase translations, we obtained some inappropriate translations for phrases. For example, we translated peace talks ( ) into " ". Fourth, some best Chinese translations are missing in the segmentation dictionary. Even when the correct Chinese translation is obtained through the lcd2ec lookup, it is not treated as a word in the segmentation dictionary and the worse thing is that the translation is missing in the segmentation dictionary. Therefore we cannot select it as the best translation. For example, the Chinese translation " " of English term "Heroin" is missing, so we can " as the translation of the English only select " term "heroin".

(

£¤¢ ¡  

'   % $#

£      ¨©§ ¦ ¥

!  "     

& %  $ #

4 3  21

0 ) ¢

Recall

Monolingual

First-Match

Context-sensitive Translation

( w = 2)

( w = 8)
0.4815 0.3173 0.2858 0.221 0.1975 0.1647 0.1277 0.0972 0.0502 0.0232 0.003 0.1646 43.48 0.2354 62.18 0.2367 62.52 0.5996 0.4251 0.3607 0.2919 0.2588 0.2235 0.1742 0.1120 0.0782 0.0513 0.0368 0.6023 0.4188 0.3569 0.2939 0.2697 0.2325 0. 1829 0.1240 0.0812 0.0513 0.0349

( w = 10)

( w = 12)

0.00 0.10 0.20 0.30 0.40 0.50 0.60 0.70 0.80 0.90 1.00 Avg. precision % Monolingual 0.379 100 33.47 0.089 23.51

0.7489 0.5884 0.5355 0.4672 0.4096 0.3521 0.3055 0.2645 0.2063 0.1266 0.0675

0.4245 0.2224 0.1609 0.1139 0.0906 0.0504 0.0414 0.0303 0.0178 0.0157 0.0116

0.3745 0.2518 0.2221 0.1876 0.1586 0.1240 0.0967 0.0698 0.0297 0.0121 0.0008 0.1267

Table 1: Evaluation Results

6 Conclusion

[4] Jianfeng Gao, Jian-Yun Nie, Endong Xun, Jian Zhang, Ming Zhou, Changning Huang. Improving Query Translation for Cross-Language Information Retrieval using Statistical Models. In Proceedings of the 24th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, September 9-13, 2001, New Orleans, Louisiana, USA. ACM 2001. [5] Hull, D. A., and Grefenstette, G. Querying Across Languages: A dictionary-based approach to Multilingual Information Retrieval. In Proceedings of the 19th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval (pp. 4957). Zurich, Switzerland: ACM Press.

As explained above, there are several factors that degrade the English to Chinese CLIR effectiveness. In this paper, we have looked in detail at only one of these problems, which is the translation ambiguity problem, and shown how significant improvement may be obtained. We adopted an improved contextsensitive translation method to improve dictionary based query translation in English to Chinese CLIR. We translate each English key term using both a dictionary lookup technique and the available context, into the most appropriate corresponding Chinese term. Through our experiments, we showed that our approach significantly outperforms the previous work that used only immediately adjacent words for context, i.e. a window size of 2, and leads to a relatively high effectiveness.

References
[1] Ballesteros, L & Croft, W.B. Resolving Ambiguity for Cross-Language Retrieval. In Proceedings of the 21st Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, August 24-28 1998, Melbourne, Australia. ACM 1998. pp. 64-71. [2] Church, K. W. and Hanks, P. Word association norms, mutual information, and lexicography. Computational Linguistics, 1990, 16(1), pp. 22-29. [3] E. Voorhees and D. Harman. Overview of the Sixth Text REtrieval Conference. In E.M. Voorhees and D.K. Harman, editors, Proceedings of the Sixth Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-6), pages 1 -- 24, Nov 1997.

[6] Jang, Myung-Gil Jang, Sung Hyon Myaeng and Se Young Park. Using Mutual Information to Resolve Query Translation Ambiguities and Query Term Weighting. In ACL-99. College Park, Maryland, pp. 223--229. [7] Mohammed Aljlayl and Ophir Frieder. Effective Arabic-English cross-language information retrieval via machine-readable dictionaries and machine translation. In Proceedings of the 24th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, September 9-13, 2001, New Orleans, LA USA. ACM 2001. pp. 295 - 302 J. [8] Zhang, Ying. Multilingual Querying for Information Retrieval. A Minor thesis submitted in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the degree of Masters of Applied Science, School of Computer Science and Information Technology, RMIT University, pp. 16-17.

